On behalf of the great state of Illinois, crossroads of a nation, Land of Lincoln, let me express
my deepest gratitude for the privilege of addressing this convention.
Tonight is a particular honor for me because, let’s face it, my presence on this stage is pretty
unlikely. My father was a foreign student, born and raised in a small village in Kenya. He grew
up herding goats, went to school in a tin-roof shack. His father -- my grandfather -- was a
cook, a domestic servant to the British.
But my grandfather had larger dreams for his son. Through hard work and perseverance my
father got a scholarship to study in a magical place, America, that shone as a beacon of
freedom and opportunity to so many who had come before.
While studying here, my father met my mother. She was born in a town on the other side of
the world, in Kansas. Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression.
The day after Pearl Harbor my grandfather signed up for duty; joined Patton’s army, marched
across Europe. Back home, my grandmother raised a baby and went to work on a bomber
assembly line. After the war, they studied on the G.I. Bill, bought a house through F.H.A., and
later moved west all the way to Hawaii in search of opportunity. And they, too, had big
dreams for their daughter. A common dream, born of two continents.
My parents shared not only an improbable love, they shared an abiding faith in the
possibilities of this nation. They would give me an African name, Barack, or ”blessed,”
believing that in a tolerant America your name is no barrier to success. They imagined me
going to the best schools in the land, even though they weren’t rich, because in a generous
America you don’t have to be rich to achieve your potential.
They're both passed away now. And yet, I know that on this night they look down on me with
great pride.
They stand here -- and I stand here -- today, grateful for the diversity of my heritage, aware
that my parents’ dreams live on in my two precious daughters. I stand here knowing that my
story is part of the larger American story, that I owe a debt to all of those who came before
me, and that, in no other country on earth, is my story even possible.
Tonight, we gather to affirm the greatness of our Nation -- not because of the height of our
skyscrapers, or the power of our military, or the size of our economy. Our pride is based on a
very simple premise, summed up in a declaration made over two hundred years ago:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
That is the true genius of America, a faith in simple dreams, an insistence on small miracles;
that we can tuck in our children at night and know that they are fed and clothed and safe from
harm; that we can say what we think, write what we think, without hearing a sudden knock
on the door; that we can have an idea and start our own business without paying a bribe; that
we can participate in the political process without fear of retribution, and that our votes will be
counted -- at least most of the time.
This year, in this election we are called to reaffirm our values and our commitments, to hold
them against a hard reality and see how we're measuring up to the legacy of our forbearers
and the promise of future generations.
And fellow Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Independents, I say to you tonight: We have
more work to do -- more work to do for the workers I met in Galesburg, Illinois, who are
losing their union jobs at the Maytag plant that’s moving to Mexico, and now are having to
compete with their own children for jobs that pay seven bucks an hour; more to do for the
father that I met who was losing his job and choking back the tears, wondering how he would
pay 4500 dollars a month for the drugs his son needs without the health benefits that he
counted on; more to do for the young woman in East St. Louis, and thousands more like her,
who has the grades, has the drive, has the will, but doesn’t have the money to go to college.
Now, don’t get me wrong. The people I meet -- in small towns and big cities, in diners and
office parks -- they don’t expect government to solve all their problems. They know they have
to work hard to get ahead, and they want to. Go into the collar counties around Chicago, and
people will tell you they don’t want their tax money wasted, by a welfare agency or by the
Pentagon. Go into any inner city neighborhood, and folks will tell you that government alone
can’t teach our kids to learn; they know that parents have to teach, that children can’t
achieve unless we raise their expectations and turn off the television sets and eradicate the
slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white. They know those things.
People don't expect government to solve all their problems. But they sense, deep in their
bones, that with just a slight change in priorities, we can make sure that every child in
America has a decent shot at life, and that the doors of opportunity remain open to all.
They know we can do better. And they want that choice.
In this election, we offer that choice. Our Party has chosen a man to lead us who embodies
the best this country has to offer. And that man is John Kerry.
John Kerry understands the ideals of community, faith, and service because they’ve defined
his life. From his heroic service to Vietnam, to his years as a prosecutor and lieutenant
governor, through two decades in the United States Senate, he's devoted himself to this
country. Again and again, we’ve seen him make tough choices when easier ones were
available.
His values and his record affirm what is best in us. John Kerry believes in an America where
hard work is rewarded; so instead of offering tax breaks to companies shipping jobs overseas,
he offers them to companies creating jobs here at home.
John Kerry believes in an America where all Americans can afford the same health coverage
our politicians in Washington have for themselves.
John Kerry believes in energy independence, so we aren’t held hostage to the profits of oil
companies, or the sabotage of foreign oil fields.
John Kerry believes in the Constitutional freedoms that have made our country the envy of
the world, and he will never sacrifice our basic liberties, nor use faith as a wedge to divide us.
And John Kerry believes that in a dangerous world war must be an option sometimes, but it
should never be the first option.
You know, awhile back I met a young man named Shamus in a V.F.W. Hall in East Moline,
Illinois. He was a good-looking kid -- six two, six three, clear eyed, with an easy smile. He told
me he’d joined the Marines and was heading to Iraq the following week.
And as I listened to him explain why he’d enlisted, the absolute faith he had in our country
and its leaders, his devotion to duty and service, I thought this young man was all that any of
us might ever hope for in a child.
But then I asked myself, "Are we serving Shamus as well as he is serving us?"
I thought of the 900 men and women -- sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and
neighbors, who won’t be returning to their own hometowns. I thought of the families I’ve met
who were struggling to get by without a loved one’s full income, or whose loved ones had
returned with a limb missing or nerves shattered, but still lacked long-term health benefits
because they were Reservists.
When we send our young men and women into harm’s way, we have a solemn obligation not
to fudge the numbers or shade the truth about why they’re going, to care for their families
while they’re gone, to tend to the soldiers upon their return, and to never ever go to war
without enough troops to win the war, secure the peace, and earn the respect of the world.
Now let me be clear. Let me be clear. We have real enemies in the world. These enemies must
be found. They must be pursued. And they must be defeated. John Kerry knows this. And just
as Lieutenant Kerry did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who served with him in
Vietnam, President Kerry will not hesitate one moment to use our military might to keep
America safe and secure.
John Kerry believes in America. And he knows that it’s not enough for just some of us to
prosper -- for alongside our famous individualism, there’s another ingredient in the American
saga, a belief that we’re all connected as one people. If there is a child on the south side of
Chicago who can’t read, that matters to me, even if it’s not my child. If there is a senior
citizen somewhere who can’t pay for their prescription drugs, and having to choose between
medicine and the rent, that makes my life poorer, even if it’s not my grandparent. If there’s
an Arab American family being rounded up without benefit of an attorney or due process, that
threatens my civil liberties.
It is that fundamental belief: I am my brother’s keeper. I am my sister’s keeper that makes
this country work. It’s what allows us to pursue our individual dreams and yet still come
together as one American family.
E pluribus unum: "Out of many, one."
Now even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us -- the spin masters,
the negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of "anything goes." Well, I say to them
tonight, there is not a liberal America and a conservative America -- there is the United States
of America. There is not a Black America and a White America and Latino America and Asian
America -- there’s the United States of America.
The pundits like to slice-and-dice our country into red states and blue states; red states for
Republicans, blue states for Democrats. But I’ve got news for them, too. We worship an
"awesome God" in the blue states, and we don’t like federal agents poking around in our
libraries in the red states. We coach Little League in the blue states and yes, we’ve got some
gay friends in the red states. There are patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and there are
patriots who supported the war in Iraq. We are one people, all of us pledging allegiance to the
stars and stripes, all of us defending the United States of America.
In the end, that’s what this election is about. Do we participate in a politics of cynicism or do
we participate in a politics of hope?
John Kerry calls on us to hope. John Edwards calls on us to hope.
I’m not talking about blind optimism here -- the almost willful ignorance that thinks
unemployment will go away if we just don’t think about it, or the health care crisis will solve
itself if we just ignore it. That’s not what I’m talking about. I’m talking about something more
substantial. It’s the hope of slaves sitting around a fire singing freedom songs; the hope of
immigrants setting out for distant shores; the hope of a young naval lieutenant bravely
patrolling the Mekong Delta; the hope of a millworker’s son who dares to defy the odds; the
hope of a skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America has a place for him, too.
Hope in the face of difficulty. Hope in the face of uncertainty. The audacity of hope!
In the end, that is God’s greatest gift to us, the bedrock of this nation. A belief in things not
seen. A belief that there are better days ahead.
I believe that we can give our middle class relief and provide working families with a road to
opportunity.
I believe we can provide jobs to the jobless, homes to the homeless, and reclaim young
people in cities across America from violence and despair.
I believe that we have a righteous wind at our backs and that as we stand on the crossroads
of history, we can make the right choices, and meet the challenges that face us.
America! Tonight, if you feel the same energy that I do, if you feel the same urgency that I
do, if you feel the same passion that I do, if you feel the same hopefulness that I do -- if we
do what we must do, then I have no doubt that all across the country, from Florida to Oregon,
from Washington to Maine, the people will rise up in November, and John Kerry will be sworn
in as President, and John Edwards will be sworn in as Vice President, and this country will
reclaim its promise, and out of this long political darkness a brighter day will come.
Hello Springfield! Look at all of you. Look at all of you. Goodness. Thank you so much. Thank 
you so much. Giving all praise and honor to God for bringing us here today. Thank you so
much. I am so grateful to see all of you. You guys are still cheering back there? 
Let me begin by saying thanks to all you who've traveled, from far and wide, to brave the cold 
today. I know it's a little chilly ­­ but I'm fired up.
You know, we all made this journey for a reason. It's humbling to see a crowd like this, but in
my heart I know you didn't just come here for me. You came here because you believe in
what this country can be. In the face of war, you believe there can be peace. In the face of 
despair, you believe there can be hope. In the face of a politics that shut you out, that's told 
you to settle, that's divided us for too long, you believe that we can be one people, reaching 
for what's possible, building that more perfect union. 
That's the journey we're on today. But let me tell you how I came to be here. As most of you
know, I'm not a native of this great state. I moved to Illinois over two decades ago. I was a 
young man then, just a year out of college. I knew no one in Chicago when I arrived, was 
without money or family connections. But a group of churches had offered me a job as a 
community organizer for the grand sum of 13,000 dollars a year. And I accepted the job, sight
unseen, motivated then by a single, simple, powerful idea: that I might play a small part in
building a better America.
My work took me to some of Chicago's poorest neighborhoods. I joined with pastors and lay­ 
people to deal with communities that had been ravaged by plant closings.
I saw that the problems people faced weren't simply local in nature, that the decisions to close 
a steel mill was made by distant executives, that the lack of textbooks and computers in a 
school could be traced to skewed priorities of politicians a thousand miles away, and that 
when a child turns to violence ­­ I came to realize that ­­ there's a hole in that boy's heart
that no government alone can fill. 
It was in these neighborhoods that I received the best education that I ever had, and where I
learned the meaning of my Christian faith. 
After three years of this work, I went to law school, because I wanted to understand how the 
law should work for those in need. I became a civil rights lawyer, and taught constitutional 
law, and after a time, I came to understand that our cherished rights of liberty and equality 
depend on the active participation of an awakened electorate. It was with these ideas in mind 
that I arrived in this capital city as a state Senator. 
It was here, in Springfield, where I saw all that is America converge ­­ farmers and teachers, 
businessmen and laborers, all of them with a story to tell, all of them seeking a seat at the 
table, all of them clamoring to be heard. I made lasting friendships here, friends that I see 
here in the audience today. It was here where we learned to disagree without being 
disagreeable; that it's possible to compromise so long as you know those principles that can
never be compromised; and that so long as we're willing to listen to each other, we can
assume the best in people instead of the worst. 
That's why we were able to reform a death penalty system that was broken; that's why we 
were able to give health insurance to children in need; that's why we made the tax system 
right here in Springfield more fair and just for working families; and that's why we passed 
ethics reform that the cynics said could never, ever be passed.
It was here, in Springfield, where North, South, East, and West come together that I was 
reminded of the essential decency of the American people ­­ where I came to believe that
through this decency, we can build a more hopeful America. And that is why, in the shadow of 
the Old State Capitol, where Lincoln once called on a house divided to stand together, where 
common hopes and common dreams still live, I stand before you today to announce my 
candidacy for President of the United States of America.
Look, I recognize that there is a certain presumptuousness in this, a certain audacity, to this 
announcement. I know that I haven't spent a lot of time learning the ways of Washington. But
I've been there long enough to know that the ways of Washington must change.
The genius of our Founders is that they designed a system of government that can be 
changed. And we should take heart, because we've changed this country before. In the face of 
tyranny, a band of patriots brought an empire to its knees. In the face of secession, we 
unified a nation and set the captives free. In the face of Depression, we put people back to
work and lifted millions out of poverty. We welcomed immigrants to our shores. We opened 
railroads to the west. We landed a man on the moon. And we heard a King's call to let "justice 
roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream."
We've done this before. Each and every time, a new generation has risen up and done what's 
needed to be done. Today we are called once more, and it is time for our generation to
answer that call. For that is our unyielding faith ­­ that in the face of impossible odds, people 
who love their country can change it. 
That's what Abraham Lincoln understood. He had his doubts. He had his defeats. He had his 
skeptics. He had his setbacks. But through his will and his words, he moved a nation and 
helped free a people. It's because of the millions who rallied to his cause that we're no longer 
divided, North and South, slave and free. It's because men and women of every race, from 
every walk of life, continued to march for freedom long after Lincoln was laid to rest, that 
today we have the chance to face the challenges of this millennium together, as one people ­­  as Americans. 
All of us know what those challenges are today: a war with no end, a dependence on oil that 
threatens our future, schools where too many children aren't learning, and families struggling 
paycheck to paycheck despite working as hard as they can. We know the challenges. We've 
heard them. We've talked about them for years. 
What's stopped us from meeting these challenges is not the absence of sound policies and 
sensible plans. What's stopped us is the failure of leadership, the smallness of our politics ­­  the ease with which we're distracted by the petty and trivial, our chronic avoidance of tough
decisions, our preference for scoring cheap political points instead of rolling up our sleeves 
and building a working consensus to tackle the big problems of America.
For the past six years we've been told that our mounting debts don't matter. We've been told 
that the anxiety Americans feel about rising health care costs and stagnant wages are an
illusion. We've been told that climate change is a hoax. We've been told that tough talk and 
an ill­conceived war can replace diplomacy, and strategy, and foresight. And when all else 
fails, when Katrina happens, or the death toll in Iraq mounts, we've been told that our crises 
are somebody else's fault. We're distracted from our real failures, and told to blame the other 
Party, or gay people, or immigrants. 
And as people have looked away in disillusionment and frustration, we know what's filled the 
void: the cynics, the lobbyists, the special interests ­­ who've turned our government into a 
game only they can afford to play. They write the checks and you get stuck with the bill. They 
get the access while you get to write a letter. They think they own this government, but we're 
here today to take it back. The time for that kind of politics is over. It is through. It's time to
turn the page ­­ right here, and right now. 
Look, we have made some progress already. I was proud to help lead the fight in Congress 
that led to the most sweeping ethics reforms since Watergate. But Washington has a long way 
to go, and it won't be easy. That's why we'll have to set priorities. We'll have to make hard
choices. And although government will play a crucial role in bringing about the changes that 
we need, more money and programs alone will not get us to where we need to go. Each of us, 
in our own lives, will have to accept responsibility ­­ for instilling an ethic of achievement in 
our children, for adapting to a more competitive economy, for strengthening our communities, 
and sharing some measure of sacrifice.
So let us begin. Let us begin this hard work together. Let us transform this nation. Let us be 
the generation that reshapes our economy to compete in the digital age. Let's set high
standards for our schools and give them the resources they need to succeed. Let's recruit a 
new army of teachers, and give them better pay and more support in exchange for more 
accountability. Let's make college more affordable, and let's invest in scientific research, and 
let's lay down broadband lines through the heart of inner cities and rural towns all across 
America. We can do that. 
And as our economy changes, let's be the generation that ensures our nation's workers are 
sharing in our prosperity. Let's protect the hard­earned benefits their companies have 
promised. Let's make it possible for hardworking Americans to save for retirement. Let's allow
our unions and their organizers to lift up this country's middle­class again. We can do that. 
Let's be the generation that ends poverty in America. Every single person willing to work 
should be able to get job training that leads to a job, and earn a living wage that can pay the 
bills, and afford child care so their kids can have a safe place to go when they work. We can
do this. 
And let's be the generation that finally, after all these years, tackles our health care crisis. We 
can control costs by focusing on prevention, by providing better treatment to the chronically 
ill, and using technology to cut the bureaucracy. Let's be the generation that says right here, 
right now: We will have universal health care in America by the end of the next President's 
first term. We can do that. 
Let's be the generation that finally frees America from the tyranny of oil. We can harness 
homegrown, alternative fuels like ethanol and spur the production of more fuel­efficient cars. 
We can set up a system for capping greenhouse gases. We can turn this crisis of global
warming into a moment of opportunity for innovation, and job creation, and an incentive for 
businesses that will serve as a model for the world. Let's be the generation that makes future 
generations proud of what we did here. 
Most of all, let's be the generation that never forgets what happened on that September day 
and confront the terrorists with everything we've got. Politics doesn't have to divide us on this 
anymore; we can work together to keep our country safe. I've worked with the Republican
Senator Dick Lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world's deadliest
weapons. We can work together to track down terrorists with a stronger military. We can
tighten the net around their finances. We can improve our intelligence capabilities and finally 
get homeland security right. But let's also understand that ultimate victory against our 
enemies will only come by rebuilding our alliances and exporting those ideals that bring hope 
and opportunity to millions of people around the globe.
We can do those things.
But all of this cannot come to pass until we bring an end to this war in Iraq. Most of you know
that I opposed this war from the start. I thought it was a tragic mistake.
Today we grieve for the families who have lost loved ones, the hearts that have been broken,  and the young lives that could have been. America, it is time to start bringing our troops 
home. It's time to admit that no amount of American lives can resolve the political
disagreement that lies at the heart of someone else's civil war. That's why I have a plan that
will bring our combat troops home by March of 2008. Letting the Iraqis know that we will not
be there forever is our last, best hope to pressure the Sunni and Shia to come to the table 
and find peace.
And there's one other thing that it's not too late to get right about this war, and that is the 
homecoming of the men and women, our veterans, who have sacrificed the most. Let us 
honor their courage by providing the care they need and rebuilding the military they love. Let
us be the generation that begins that work. 
I know there are those who don't believe we can do all these things. I understand the 
skepticism. After all, every four years, candidates from both Parties make similar promises, 
and I expect this year will be no different. All of us running for President will travel around the 
country offering ten­point plans and making grand speeches; all of us will trumpet those 
qualities we believe make us uniquely qualified to lead this country. But too many times, after 
the election is over, and the confetti is swept away, all those promises fade from memory, and 
the lobbyists and special interests move in, and people turn away, disappointed as before, left
to struggle on their own. 
That's why this campaign can't only be about me. It must be about us. It must be about what
we can do together. This campaign must be the occasion, the vehicle, of your hopes, and your 
dreams. It will take your time, your energy, and your advice to push us forward when we're 
doing right, and let us know when we're not. This campaign has to be about reclaiming the 
meaning of citizenship, restoring our sense of common purpose, and realizing that few 
obstacles can withstand the power of millions of voices calling for change.
By ourselves, this change will not happen. Divided, we are bound to fail. But the life of a tall,  gangly, self­made Springfield lawyer tells us that a different future is possible.
He tells us that there is power in words. 
He tells us that there's power in conviction. 
That beneath all the differences of race and region, faith and station, we are one people.
He tells us that there's power in hope.
As Lincoln organized the forces arrayed against slavery, he was heard to say this: "Of strange,
discordant, and even hostile elements, we gathered from the four winds, and formed and 
fought to battle through."¹ 
That is our purpose here today. That is why I am in this race ­­ not just to hold an office, but
to gather with you to transform a nation. I want to win that next battle ­­ for justice and 
opportunity.
I want to win that next battle ­­ for better schools, and better jobs, and better health care for 
all. I want us to take up the unfinished business of perfecting our union, and building a better 
America.
And if you will join with me in this improbable quest, if you feel destiny calling, and see as I
see, the future of endless possibility stretching out before us; if you sense, as I sense, that 
the time is now to shake off our slumber, and slough off our fears, and make good on the 
debt we owe past and future generations, then I am ready to take up the cause, and march
with you, and work with you ­­ today. 
Together we can finish the work that needs to be done, and usher in a new birth of freedom 
on this Earth. 
Thank you very much everybody ­­ let's get to work! I love you. Thank you. 
Thank you. What a wonderful reception. Thank you, Saint Paul. Thank you, Minnesota.
Thank you, JoAnn Syverson for the wonderful introduction. 
Thank you, Michelle Obama and Malia Obama and Sasha Obama. Thank you to my brothers 
and sisters. Thank you to my staff. Thank you to our volunteers. Thank you to my political
team. Thank you to our campaign manager, David Plouffe, who never gets any credit, but has 
built the best political organization in the country. 
Thank you to my grandmother, who helped raise me, and is sitting in Hawaii somewhere right
now because she can't travel, but who poured everything she had into me, and who helped to
make me the man I am today. Tonight is for her. 
Tonight, Minnesota, after 54 hard­fought contests, our primary season has finally come to an
end. Sixteen months have passed since we first stood together on the steps of the Old State 
Capitol in Springfield, Illinois. Thousands of miles have been traveled; millions of voices have 
been heard. 
And because of what you said, because you decided that change must come to Washington,  because you believed that this year must be different than all the rest, because you chose to
listen not to your doubts or your fears, but to your greatest hopes and highest aspirations, 
tonight we mark the end of one historic journey with the beginning of another, a journey that
will bring a new and better day to America. Because of you, tonight I can stand here and say 
that I will be the Democratic nominee for the President of the United States of America.
I want to thank all those in Montana and South Dakota who stood up for change today. I want
to thank every American who stood with us over the course of this campaign, through the 
good days and the bad, from the snows of Cedar Rapids to the sunshine of Sioux Falls. And,
tonight, I also want to thank the men and woman who took this journey with me as fellow
candidates for President. 
At this defining moment for our nation, we should be proud that our Party put forth one of the 
most talented, qualified field of individuals ever to run for office. I have not just competed 
with them as rivals. I’ve learned from them as friends, as public servants, and as patriots who
love America and are willing to work tirelessly to make this country better. They are leaders of 
this Party and leaders that America will turn to for years to come. 
And that is particularly true for the candidate who has traveled further on this journey than 
anyone else: Senator Hillary Clinton has made history in this campaign. She has made history 
not just because she’s a woman who has done what no woman has done before, but because 
she is a leader who inspires millions of Americans with her strength, her courage, and her 
commitment to the causes that brought us here tonight. I congratulate her on her victory in
South Dakota, and I congratulate her on the race that she has run throughout this contest.  We’ve certainly had our differences over the last 16 months. But as someone who’s shared a 
stage with her many times, I can tell you that what gets Hillary Clinton up in the morning ­­ 
even in the face of tough odds ­­ is exactly what sent her and Bill Clinton to sign up for their 
first campaign in Texas all those years ago, what sent her to work at the Children’s Defense 
Fund and made her fight for health care as first lady, what led her to the United States Senate 
and fueled her barrier­breaking campaign for the presidency: an unyielding desire to improve 
the lives of ordinary Americans, no matter how difficult the fight may be. 
And you can rest assured that when we finally win the battle for universal health care in this 
country ­­ and we will win that fight ­­ she will be central to that victory. When we transform 
our energy policy and lift our children out of poverty, it will be because she worked to help 
make it happen. Our Party and our country are better off because of her, and I am a better 
candidate for having had the honor to compete with Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
There are those who say that this primary has somehow left us weaker and more divided.  Well, I say that, because of this primary, there are millions of Americans who've cast their 
ballot for the very first time. There are Independents and Republicans who understand this 
election isn’t just about a change of Party in Washington, but also about the need to change 
Washington. There are young people, and African­Americans, and Hispanic­Americans, and 
women of all ages who have voted in numbers that have broken records and inspired a nation. 
All of you chose to support a candidate you believe in deeply. But at the end of the day, we 
aren’t the reason you came out and waited in lines that stretched block after block to make 
your voice heard. You didn’t do that because of me or Senator Clinton or anyone else. You did 
it because you know in your hearts that at this moment, a moment that will define a 
generation, we cannot afford to keep doing what we’ve been doing. We owe our children a 
better future. We owe our country a better future.
And for all those who dream of that future tonight, I say: Let us begin the work together. Let
us unite in common effort to chart a new course for America.
In just a few short months, the Republican Party will arrive in St. Paul with a very different
agenda. They will come here to nominate John McCain, a man who has served this country 
heroically. I honor, we honor the service of John McCain, and I respect his many 
accomplishments, even if he chooses to deny mine. My differences with him are not personal.  They are with the policies he has proposed in this campaign, because while John McCain can
legitimately tout moments of independence from his Party in the past, such independence has 
not been the hallmark of his presidential campaign. 
It’s not change when John McCain decided to stand with George Bush 95 percent of the time, 
as he did in the Senate last year.
It’s not change when he offers four more years of Bush economic policies that have failed to
create well­paying jobs, or insure our workers, or help Americans afford the skyrocketing cost
of college, policies that have lowered the real incomes of the average American family, and 
widened the gap between Wall Street and Main Street, and left our children with a mountain
of debt. 
It’s not change when he promises to continue a policy in Iraq that asks everything of our 
brave men and women in uniform and nothing of Iraqi politicians, a policy where all we look 
for are reasons to stay in Iraq, while we spend billions of dollars a month on a war that isn’t
making the American people any safer. So, I’ll say this: There are many words to describe 
John McCain’s attempt to pass off his embrace of George Bush’s policies as bipartisan and 
new, but “change” is not one of them. “Change” is not one of them, because change is a 
foreign policy that doesn’t begin and end with a war that should’ve never been authorized and 
never been waged. 
I won’t stand here and pretend that there are many good options left in Iraq, but what’s not
an option is leaving our troops in that country for the next hundred years, especially at a time 
when our military is overstretched, our nation is isolated, and nearly every other threat to
America is being ignored. We must be as careful getting out of Iraq as we were careless 
getting in, but start leaving we must. It’s time for Iraqis to take responsibility for their future. 
It’s time to rebuild our military and give our veterans the care and the benefits they deserve 
when they come home. 
It's time to refocus our efforts on Al Qaida’s leadership and Afghanistan, and rally the world 
against the common threats of the 21st century: terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate 
change and poverty, genocide and disease. That’s what change is. 
Change, Minnesota, is realizing that meetings [sic] today’s threats requires not just our 
firepower, but the power of our diplomacy: tough, direct diplomacy, where the President of 
the United States isn’t afraid to let any petty dictator know where America stands and what
we stand for. We must once again have the courage and the conviction to lead the free world.
That is the legacy of Roosevelt and Truman and Kennedy. That’s what the American people 
demand. That’s what change is. 
Change is building an economy that rewards not just wealth, but the work and the workers 
who created it. It’s understanding that the struggles facing working families can’t be solved by 
spending billions of dollars on more tax breaks for big corporations and wealthy CEOs, but by 
giving a middle­class tax break to those who need it, and investing in our crumbling 
infrastructure, and transforming how we use energy, and improving our schools, and renewing 
our commitment to science and innovation. It’s understanding that fiscal responsibility and 
shared prosperity can go hand­in­hand, as they did when Bill Clinton was President. 
John McCain has spent a lot of time talking about trips to Iraq in the last few weeks, but
maybe if he spent some time taking trips to the cities and towns that have been hardest hit by 
this economy ­­ cities in Michigan, and Ohio, and right here in Minnesota ­­ he’d understand 
the kind of change that people are looking for.
Maybe if he went to Iowa and met the student who works the night shift after a full day of 
class and still can’t pay the medical bills for a sister who’s ill, he’d understand she can’t afford 
four more years of a health care plan that only takes care of the healthy and the wealthy. She 
needs us to pass health care right now, a plan that guarantees insurance to every American
who wants it and brings down premiums for every family who needs it. That’s the change we 
need, Minnesota.
Maybe if John McCain went to Pennsylvania and he met the man who lost his job, but can’t
even afford the gas to drive around and look for a new one, he’d understand we can’t afford 
four more years of our addiction to oil from dictators. That man needs us to pass an energy 
policy that works with automakers to raise fuel standards, and makes corporations pay for 
their pollution, and oil companies invest their record profits in a clean energy future, an
energy policy that will create millions of new jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced.
That’s the change we need, Minnesota.
And maybe if John McCain spent some time in the schools of South Carolina or St. Paul,  Minnesota, or where he spoke tonight in New Orleans, Louisiana, he’d understand that we 
can’t afford to leave the money behind for No Child Left Behind; that we owe it to our children
to invest in early­childhood education; and recruit an army of new teachers and give them 
better pay and more support; and finally decide that, in this global economy, the chance to
get a college education should not be a privilege for the few, but a birthright of every 
American. That’s the change we need in America. That’s why I’m running for President of the 
United States. 
Now, the other side will come here in September and offer a very different set of policies and 
positions, and that is a good thing. That is a debate I look forward to. It is a debate that the 
American people deserve on the issues that will help determine the future of this country and 
the future for our children. But what you don’t deserve is another election that’s governed by 
fear, and innuendo, and division. What you won’t hear from this campaign or this Party is the 
kind of politics that uses religion as a wedge and patriotism as a bludgeon.
What you won’t see from this campaign or this Party is a politics that sees our opponents not
as competitors to challenge, but enemies to polarize, because we may call ourselves 
Democrats and Republicans, but we are Americans first. We are always Americans first. 
Despite what the good senator from Arizona may have said tonight, I’ve seen people of 
differing views and opinions find common cause many times during my two decades in public 
life, and I’ve brought many together myself. I’ve walked arm­in­arm with community leaders 
on the south side of Chicago and watched tensions fade as black and white and Latino fought
together for good jobs and good schools. I’ve sat across the table from law enforcement
officials and civil rights advocates to reform a criminal justice system that sent 13 innocent
people to death row. I’ve worked with friends in the other Party to provide more children with
health insurance and more working families with a tax break, to curb the spread of nuclear 
weapons and ensure that the American people know where their tax dollars are being spent,  and to reduce the influence of lobbyists who have all too often set the agenda in Washington. 
In our country, I have found that this cooperation happens not because we agree on 
everything, but because, behind all the false labels and false divisions and categories that
define us, beyond all the petty bickering and point­scoring in Washington, Americans are a 
decent, generous, compassionate people, united by common challenges and common hopes.
And every so often, there are moments which call on that fundamental goodness to make this 
country great again. So it was for that band of patriots who declared in a Philadelphia hall the 
formation of a more perfect union, and for all those who gave on the fields of Gettysburg and 
Antietam their last full measure of devotion to save that same union. So it was for the 
greatest generation that conquered fear itself, and liberated a continent from tyranny, and 
made this country home to untold opportunity and prosperity. So it was for the workers who
stood out on the picket lines, the women who shattered glass ceilings, the children who
braved a Selma bridge for freedom’s cause. So it has been for every generation that faced 
down the greatest challenges and the most improbable odds to leave their children a world 
that’s better and kinder and more just. 
And so it must be for us. 
America, this is our moment. This is our time, our time to turn the page on the policies of the 
past, our time to bring new energy and new ideas to the challenges we face, our time to offer 
a new direction for this country that we love. 
The journey will be difficult. The road will be long. I face this challenge with profound humility 
and knowledge of my own limitations, but I also face it with limitless faith in the capacity of 
the American people.
Because if we are willing to work for it, and fight for it, and believe in it, then I am absolutely 
certain that, generations from now, we will be able to look back and tell our children that this 
was the moment when we began to provide care for the sick and good jobs to the jobless. 
This was the moment when the rise of the oceans began to slow and our planet began to heal.
This was the moment when we ended a war, and secured our nation, and restored our image 
as the last, best hope on Earth. 
This was the moment, this was the time when we came together to remake this great nation
so that it may always reflect our very best selves and our highest ideals. 
Thank you, Minnesota. God bless you. 
God bless the United States of America
Madame Speaker, Vice President Biden, Members of Congress, distinguished guests, and 
fellow Americans: 
Our Constitution declares that from time to time, the President shall give to Congress 
information about the state of our union. For two hundred and twenty years, our leaders 
[have] fulfilled this duty. They've done so during periods of prosperity and tranquility. And 
they've done so in the midst of war and depression ­­ at moments of great strife and great
struggle.
It's tempting to look back on these moments and assume that our progress was inevitable ­­  that America was always destined to succeed. But when the Union was turned back at Bull
Run and the Allies first landed at Omaha Beach, victory was very much in doubt. When the 
market crashed on Black Tuesday and civil rights marchers were beaten on Bloody Sunday, 
the future was anything but certain. These were the times that tested the courage of our 
convictions, and the strength of our union. And despite all our divisions and disagreements, 
our hesitations and our fears, America prevailed because we chose to move forward as one 
nation, and one people.
Again, we are tested. And again, we must answer history's call. One year ago, I took office 
amid two wars, an economy rocked by a severe recession, a financial system on the verge of 
collapse, and a government deeply in debt. Experts from across the political spectrum warned 
that if we did not act, we might face a second depression. So we acted ­­ immediately and 
aggressively. And one year later, the worst of the storm has passed.
But the devastation remains. One in ten Americans still cannot find work. Many businesses
have shuttered. Home values have declined. Small towns and rural communities have been hit
especially hard. And for those who had already known poverty, life's become that much
harder. 
And this recession has also compounded the burdens that America's families have been
dealing with for decades: the burden of working harder and longer for less, of being unable to
save enough to retire, or help kids with college.
So I know the anxieties that are out there right now. They're not new. These struggles are the 
reason I ran for President. These struggles are what I've witnessed for years in places like 
Elkhart, Indiana; Galesburg, Illinois. I hear about them in the letters that I read each night.  The toughest to read are those written by children, asking why they have to move from their 
home, asking or when their mom or dad will be able to go back to work. 
For these Americans and so many others, change has not come fast enough. Some are 
frustrated; some are angry. They don't understand why it seems like bad behavior on Wall
Street is rewarded but hard work on Main Street isn't; or why Washington has been unable or 
unwilling to solve any of our problems. They're tired of the partisanship and the shouting and 
the pettiness. They know we can't afford it. Not now. 
So we face big and difficult challenges. And what the American people hope ­­ what they 
deserve ­­ is for all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to work through our differences; to
overcome the numbing weight of our politics. For while the people who sent us here have 
different backgrounds, different stories, different beliefs, the anxieties they face are the same.
The aspirations they hold are shared: a job that pays the bills; a chance to get ahead. Most of 
all, the ability to give their children a better life.
And you know what else they share? They share a stubborn resilience in the face of adversity. 
After one of the most difficult years in our history, they remain busy building cars and 
teaching kids, starting businesses, and going back to school. They're coaching little league 
and helping their neighbors. One woman wrote to me and said, "We are strained but hopeful,  struggling but encouraged." 
It's because of this spirit ­­ this great decency and great strength ­­ that I have never been
more hopeful about America's future than I am tonight. 
Despite our hardships, our union is strong. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not
allow fear or division to break our spirit. In this new decade, it's time the American people get
a government that matches their decency, that embodies their strength. And tonight I'd like 
to talk about how, together, we can deliver on that promise.
It begins with our economy. Our most urgent task upon taking office was to shore up the 
same banks that helped cause this crisis. It was not easy to do. And if there's one thing that
has unified Democrats and Republicans ­­ and everybody in between ­­ it's that we all hated 
the bank bailout. I hated it ­­ I hated it ­­ I hated it. You hated it. It was about as popular as 
a root canal. 
But when I ran for President, I promised I wouldn't just do what was popular ­­ I would do
what was necessary. And if we had allowed the meltdown of the financial system, 
unemployment might be double what it is today. More businesses would certainly have closed.
More homes would have surely been lost. So I supported the last Administration's efforts to
create the financial rescue program. And when we took the program over, we made it more 
transparent and more accountable. And as a result, the markets are now stabilized, and we've 
recovered most of the money we spent on the banks. 
Most, but not all. To recover the rest, I've proposed a fee on the biggest banks. 
Now, I know Wall Street isn't keen on this idea, but if these firms can afford to hand out big 
bonuses again, they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in
their time of need.
Now, as we stabilized the financial system, we also took steps to get our economy growing 
again, save as many jobs as possible, and help Americans who had become unemployed.
That's why we extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 18 million
Americans, made health insurance 65% cheaper for families who get their coverage through 
COBRA, and passed 25 different tax cuts. 
Now, let me repeat: We cut taxes. 
We cut taxes for 95% of working families. 
We cut taxes for small businesses.  We cut taxes for first­time homebuyers. 
We cut taxes for parents trying to care for their children.  We cut taxes for eight million Americans paying for college.
(I thought I'd get some applause on that one.) 
As a result, millions of Americans had more to spend on gas, and food, and other necessities ­  ­ all of which helped businesses keep more workers. And we haven't raised income taxes by a 
single dime on a single person. Not a single dime.
Now, because of the steps we took, there are about two million Americans working right now
who would otherwise be unemployed. 200,000 work in construction and clean energy. 
300,000 are teachers and other education workers. Tens of thousands are cops, firefighters, 
correctional officers, first responders. And we're on track to add another one and a half million
jobs to this total by the end of the year. 
The plan that has made all of this possible, from the tax cuts to the jobs, is the Recovery Act.  That's right: the Recovery Act, also known as the Stimulus Bill. Economists on the left and the 
right say this bill has helped saved jobs and avert disaster. But you don't have to take their 
word for it: Talk to the small business in Phoenix that will triple its workforce because of the 
Recovery Act. Talk to the window manufacturer in Philadelphia who said he used to be 
skeptical about the Recovery Act, until he had to add two more work shifts just because of the 
business it created. Talk to the single teacher raising two kids who was told by her principal in
the last week of school that because of the Recovery Act, she wouldn't be laid off after all. 
There are stories like this all across America. And after two years of recession, the economy is 
growing again. Retirement funds have started to gain back some of their value. Businesses 
are beginning to invest again, and slowly [some] are starting to hire again. 
But I realize that for every success story, there are other stories ­­ of men and women who
wake up with the anguish of not knowing where their next paycheck will come from; who send 
out resumes week after week and hear nothing in response. That is why jobs must be our 
number one focus in 2010. And that's why I'm calling for a new jobs bill tonight!
Now, the true engine of job creation in this country will always be America's businesses. (I 
agree. Absolutely). But government can create the conditions necessary for businesses to
expand and hire more workers. We should start where most new jobs do ­­ in small
businesses, companies that begin when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream, or a 
worker decides its time she became her own boss. 
Through sheer grit and determination, these companies have weathered the recession and 
they're ready to grow. But when you talk to small business owners in places like Allentown,  Pennsylvania or Elyria, Ohio, you find out that even though banks on Wall Street are lending 
again, they're mostly lending to bigger companies. Financing remains difficult for small
business owners across the country ­­ even those that are making a profit. 
So tonight, I'm proposing that we take 30 billion dollars of the money Wall Street banks have 
repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay 
afloat. I'm also proposing a new small business tax credit ­­ one that will go to over one 
million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages. While we're at it, let's also
eliminate all capital gains taxes on small business investment, and provide a tax incentive for 
all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment.
Next, we can put Americans to work today building the infrastructure of tomorrow. From the 
first railroads to the interstate highway system, our nation has always been built to compete.
There's no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains, or the new factories that 
manufacture clean energy products. 
Tomorrow, I'll visit Tampa, Florida, where workers will soon break ground on a new high­ 
speed railroad funded by the Recovery Act. There are projects like that all across this country 
that will create jobs and help our move our nation's goods, services, and information. We 
should put more Americans to work building clean energy facilities, and give rebates to
Americans who make their homes more energy efficient, which supports clean energy jobs.
And to encourage these and other businesses to stay within our borders, it is time to finally 
slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to
companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America.
Now, the House has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these steps. As the first order of 
business this year, I urge the Senate to do the same ­­ and I know they will. They will. People 
are out of work. They're hurting. And they need our help. And I want a jobs bill on my desk 
without delay.
But the truth is, these steps still won't make up for the seven million jobs that we've lost over 
the last two years. The only way to move to full employment is to lay a new foundation for 
long­term economic growth, and finally address the problems that America's families have 
confronted for years. 
We can't afford another so­called economic "expansion" like the one from the last decade ­­  what some call the "lost decade" ­­ where jobs grew more slowly than during any prior 
expansion; where the income of the average American household declined while the cost of 
health care and tuition reached record highs; where prosperity was built on a housing bubble 
and financial speculation. 
From the day I took office, I've been told that addressing our larger challenges is too
ambitious. Such an effort would be too contentious. I've been told that our political system is 
too gridlocked, and that we should just put things on hold for awhile. For those who make 
these claims, I have one simple question: How long should we wait? How long should America 
put its future on hold? 
You see, Washington has been telling us to wait for decades, even as the problems have 
grown worse. Meanwhile, China's not waiting to revamp its economy. Germany's not waiting.
India's not waiting. These nations ­­ they're not standing still. These nations aren't playing for 
second place. They're putting more emphasis on math and science. They're rebuilding their 
infrastructure. They're making serious investments in clean energy because they want those 
jobs.
Well, I do not accept second­place for the United States of America.
As hard as it may be, as uncomfortable and contentious as the debates may become, it's time 
to get serious about fixing the problems that are hampering our growth. Now, one place to
start is serious financial reform. Look, I am not interested in punishing banks. I'm interested 
in protecting our economy. A strong, healthy financial market makes it possible for businesses 
to access credit and create new jobs. It channels the savings of families into investments that 
raise incomes. But that can only happen if we guard against the same recklessness that nearly 
brought down our entire economy. 
We need to make sure consumers and middle­class families have the information they need to
make financial decisions. We can't allow financial institutions, including those that take your 
deposits, to take risks that threaten the whole economy. Now, the House has already passed 
financial reform with many of these changes. And the lobbyists are trying to kill it. Well, we 
cannot let them win this fight. And if the bill that ends up on my desk does not meet the test
of real reform, I will send it back until we get it right. We've got to get it right. 
Next, we need to encourage American innovation. Last year, we made the largest investment
in basic research funding in history, an investment that could lead to the world's cheapest
solar cells or treatment that kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched. And no area 
is more ripe for such innovation than energy. You can see the results of last year's investment
in clean energy in the North Carolina company that will create 1200 jobs nationwide helping to
make advanced batteries, or, in the California business that will put a thousand people to
work making solar panels. 
But to create more of these clean energy jobs, we need more production, more efficiency, 
more incentives. And that means building a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power 
plants in this country. It means making tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for 
oil and gas development. It means continued investment in advanced biofuels and clean coal 
technologies. And yes, it means passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill with
incentives that will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America.
I am grateful to the House for passing such a bill last year. And this year, I am eager to help 
advance the bipartisan effort in the Senate. I know there have been questions about whether 
we can afford such changes in a tough economy. I know that there are those who disagree 
with the overwhelming scientific evidence on climate change. But here's the thing: Even if you
doubt the evidence, providing incentives for energy efficiency and clean energy are the right
thing to do for our future because the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the 
nation that leads the global economy. And America must be that nation. 
Third, we need to export more of our goods ­­ because the more products we make and sell to
other countries, the more jobs we support right here in America. So tonight, we set a new
goal: We will double our exports over the next five years, an increase that will support two
million jobs in America.
To help meet this goal, we're launching a National Export Initiative that will help farmers and 
small businesses increase their exports, and reform export controls consistent with national 
security. 
We have to seek new markets aggressively, just as our competitors are. If America sits on the 
sidelines while other nations sign trade deals, we will lose the chance to create jobs on our 
shores. But realizing those benefits also means enforcing those agreements so our trading 
partners play by the rules. And that's why we'll continue to shape a Doha trade agreement
that opens global markets, and why we will strengthen our trade relations in Asia and with key 
partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia.
Fourth, we need to invest in the skills and education of our people.
Now, this year we've broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a 
national competition to improve our schools. And the idea here is simple: instead of rewarding 
failure, we only reward success. Instead of funding the status quo, we only invest in reform ­­  reform that raises student achievement, inspires students to excel in math and science, and 
turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans, from rural
communities to the inner city. In the 21st century, the best anti­poverty program around is a 
world­class education. And in this country, the success of our children cannot depend more on 
where they live than on their potential.  When we renew the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we will work with Congress to
expand these reforms to all 50 states. Still, in this economy, a high school diploma no longer 
guarantees a good job. That's why I urge the Senate to follow the House and pass a bill that 
will revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the children of so many 
working families. 
To make college more affordable, this bill will finally end the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies 
that go to banks for student loans. Instead, let's take that money and give families a 10,000
dollar tax credit for four years of college and increase Pell Grants. And let's tell another one 
million students that when they graduate, they will be required to pay only 10 percent of their 
income on student loans, and all of their debt will be forgiven after 20 years ­­ and forgiven
after 10 years if they choose a career in public service, because in the United States of 
America, no one should go broke because they chose to go to college.
And by the way, it's time for colleges and universities to get serious about cutting their own
costs ­­ because they, too, have a responsibility to help solve this problem. 
Now, the price of college tuition is just one of the burdens facing the middle­class. That's why
last year I asked Vice President Biden to chair a task force on Middle­Class Families.
That's why we're nearly doubling the child care tax credit, and making it easier to save for 
retirement by giving access to every worker a retirement account and expanding the tax 
credit for those who start a nest egg. That's why we're working to lift the value of a family's 
single largest investment ­­ their home. The steps we took last year to shore up the housing 
market have allowed millions of Americans to take out new loans and save an average of 1500 
dollars on mortgage payments. This year, we will step up re­financing so that homeowners 
can move into more affordable mortgages. And it is precisely to relieve the burden on middle­ 
class families that we still need health insurance reform. Yes, we do. 
Now, let's clear a few things up. I didn't choose to tackle this issue to get some legislative 
victory under my belt. And by now it should be fairly obvious that I didn't take on health care 
because it was good politics. I took on health care because [of] the stories I've heard from 
Americans with preexisting conditions whose lives depend on getting coverage; patients 
who've been denied coverage; families ­­ even those with insurance ­­ who are just one 
illness away from financial ruin. 
After nearly a century of trying ­­ Democratic Administrations, Republican Administrations ­­  we are closer than ever to bringing more security to the lives of so many Americans. The 
approach we've taken would protect every American from the worst practices of the insurance 
industry. It would give small businesses and uninsured Americans a chance to choose an
affordable health care plan in a competitive market. It would require every insurance plan to
cover preventive care. And by the way, I want to acknowledge our First Lady, Michelle 
Obama, who this year is creating a national movement to tackle the epidemic of childhood 
obesity and make kids healthier. Thank you. She gets embarrassed.
Our approach would preserve the right of Americans who have insurance to keep their doctor 
and their plan. It would reduce costs and premiums for millions of families and 
businesses. And according to the Congressional Budget Office ­­ the independent organization
that both parties have cited as the official scorekeeper for Congress ­­ our approach would 
bring down the deficit by as much as one trillion dollars over the next two decades. 
Still, this is a complexed issue, and the longer it was debated, the more skeptical people 
became. I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American
people. And I know that with all the lobbying and horse­trading, the process left most
Americans wondering, "What's in it for me?" But I also know this problem is not going away.
By the time I'm finished speaking tonight, more Americans will have lost their health
insurance. Millions will lose it this year. Our deficit will grow. Premiums will go up. Patients will
be denied the care they need. Small business owners will continue to drop coverage 
altogether. I will not walk away from these Americans, and neither should the people in this 
chamber.
So, as temperatures cool, I want everyone to take another look at the plan we've proposed.
There's a reason why many doctors, nurses, and health care experts who know our system 
best consider this approach a vast improvement over the status quo. But if anyone from either 
party has a better approach that will bring down premiums, bring down the deficit, cover the 
uninsured, strengthen Medicare for seniors, and stop insurance company abuses, let me 
know. Let me know. Let me know. I'm eager to see it. 
Here's what I ask Congress, though: Don't walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are 
so close. Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people. Let's 
get it done. Let's get it done.
Now, even as health care reform would reduce our deficit, it's not enough to dig us out of a 
massive fiscal hole in which we find ourselves. It's a challenge that makes all others that
much harder to solve, and one that's been subject to a lot of political posturing. So let me 
start the discussion of government spending by setting the record straight. 
At the beginning of the last decade, the year 2000, America had a budget surplus of over 200 
billion dollars. By the time I took office, we had a one­year deficit of over one trillion dollars 
and projected deficits of eight trillion dollars over the next decade. Most of this was the result
of not paying for two wars, two tax cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program. On top 
of that, the effects of the recession put a three trillion dollar hole in our budget. All this was 
before I walked in the door. 
Now just stating the facts. Now, if we had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked 
nothing more than to start bringing down the deficit. But we took office amid a crisis. And our 
efforts to prevent a second depression have added another one trillion dollars to our national
debt. That, too, is a fact. 
I'm absolutely convinced that was the right thing to do. But families across the country are 
tightening their belts and making tough decisions. The federal government should do the 
same. So tonight, I'm proposing specific steps to pay for the trillion dollars that it took to
rescue the economy last year. Starting in 2011, we are prepared to freeze government
spending for three years. Spending related to our national security, Medicare, Medicaid, and 
Social Security will not be affected. But all other discretionary government programs will. Like 
any cash­strapped family, we will work within a budget to invest in what we need and sacrifice 
what we don't. And if I have to enforce this discipline by veto, I will.  We will continue to go through the budget, line by line, page by page, to eliminate programs 
that we can't afford and don't work. We've already identified 20 billion dollars in savings for 
next year. To help working families, we'll extend our middle­class tax cuts. But at a time of 
record deficits, we will not continue tax cuts for oil companies, for investment fund managers, 
and for those making over 250,000 dollars a year. We just can't afford it.
Now, even after paying for what we spent on my watch, we'll still face the massive deficit we 
had when I took office. More importantly, the cost of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security 
will continue to skyrocket. That's why I've called for a bipartisan fiscal commission, modeled 
on a proposal by Republican Judd Gregg and Democrat Kent Conrad. This can't be one of 
those Washington gimmicks that lets us pretend we solved a problem. The commission will
have to provide a specific set of solutions by a certain deadline.
Now, yesterday the Senate blocked a bill that would have created this commission. So I'll
issue an executive order that will allow us to go forward, because I refuse to pass this 
problem on to another generation of Americans. And when the vote comes tomorrow, the 
Senate should restore the pay­as­you­go law that was a big reason for why we had record 
surpluses in the 1990s. 
Now, I know that some in my own party will argue that we can't address the deficit or freeze 
government spending when so many are still hurting. And I agree ­­ which is why this freeze 
won't take effect until next year ­­ when the economy is stronger. That's how budgeting 
works. But understand, if we don't take meaningful steps to rein in our debt, it could damage 
our markets, increase the cost of borrowing, and jeopardize our recovery ­­ all of which would 
have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes. 
From some on the right, I expect we'll hear a different argument ­­ that if we just make fewer 
investments in our people, extend tax cuts including those for the wealthier Americans, 
eliminate more regulations, maintain the status quo on health care, our deficits will go
away. The problem is that's what we did for eight years. That's what helped us into this 
crisis. It's what helped lead to these deficits. We can't do it again. 
Rather than fight the same tired battles that have dominated Washington for decades, it's 
time to try something new. Let's invest in our people without leaving them a mountain of 
debt. Let's meet our responsibility to the citizens who sent us here. Let's try common sense ­­  a novel concept. 
Now, to do that we have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now. We 
face a deficit of trust ­­ deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have 
been growing for years. To close that credibility gap we have to take action on both ends of 
Pennsylvania Avenue ­­ to end the outsized influence of lobbyists; to do our work openly; to
give our people the government they deserve. 
Now, that's what I came to Washington to do. That's why, for the first time in history, my 
Administration posts on our White House visitors online. That's why we've excluded lobbyists 
from policymaking jobs, or seats on federal boards and commissions. But we can't stop 
there. It's time to require lobbyists to disclose each contact they make on behalf of a client
with my Administration or with Congress. It's time to put strict limits on the contributions that
lobbyists give to candidates for federal office.
With all due deference to separation of powers, last week the Supreme Court reversed a 
century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests ­­ including foreign
corporations ­­ to spend without limit in our elections. I don't think American elections should 
be bankrolled by America's most powerful interests ­­ or worse, by foreign entities. They 
should be decided by the American people. And I'd urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a 
bill that helps to correct some of these problems. 
I'm also calling on Congress to continue down the path of earmark reform ­­ Democrats and 
Republicans, Democrats and Republicans. Look...you've trimmed some of this spending; 
you've embraced some meaningful change. But restoring the public trust demands more. For 
example, some members of Congress post some earmark requests online. Tonight, I'm calling 
on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single Web site before there's a vote, so that 
the American people can see how their money is being spent. 
Of course, none of these reforms will even happen if we don't also reform how we work with
one another. Now, I'm not naïve. I never thought that the mere fact of my election would 
usher in peace and harmony, and some post­partisan era. I knew that both parties have fed 
divisions that are deeply entrenched. And on some issues, there are simply philosophical
differences that will always cause us to part ways. These disagreements, about the role of 
government in our lives, about our national priorities and our national security, they've been
taking place for over 200 years. They're the very essence of our democracy. 
But what frustrates the American people is a Washington where every day is "Election
Day." We can't wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the 
most embarrassing headlines about the other side ­­ a belief that if you lose, I win. 1 Neither 
party should delay or obstruct every single bill just because they can. The confirmation of ­­ 
I'm speaking to both parties now ­­ the confirmation of well­qualified public servants shouldn't 
be held hostage to the pet projects or grudges of a few individual senators. 
Washington may think that saying anything about the other side, no matter how false, no
matter how malicious, is just part of the game. But it's precisely such politics that has stopped 
either party from helping the American people. Worse yet, it's sowing further division among 
our citizens, further distrust in our government. 
So, no, I will not give up on trying to change the tone of our politics. I know it's an election
year. And after last week, it's clear that campaign fever has come even earlier than
usual. But we still need to govern. 
To Democrats, I would remind you that we still have the largest majority in decades, and the 
people expect us to solve problems, not run for the hills. And if the Republican leadership is 
going to insist that 60 votes in the Senate are required to do any business at all in this town ­­  a supermajority ­­ then the responsibility to govern is now yours as well. Just saying no to
everything may be good short­term politics, but it's not leadership.
We were sent here to serve our citizens, not our ambitions. So let's show the American people 
that we can do it together. 
This week, I'll be addressing a meeting of the House Republicans. I'd like to begin monthly 
meetings with both Democratic and Republican leadership. I know you can't wait. 
Now, throughout our history, no issue has united this country more than our security. Sadly, 
some of the unity we felt after 9/11 has dissipated. Now, we can argue all we want about
who's to blame for this, but I'm not interested in re­litigating the past. I know that all of us 
love this country. All of us are committed to its defense. So let's put aside the schoolyard 
taunts about who is tough. Let's reject the false choice between protecting our people and 
upholding our values. Let's leave behind the fear and division, and do what it takes to defend 
our nation and forge a more hopeful future ­­ for America and for the world.
That's the work we began last year. Since the day I took office, we've renewed our focus on
the terrorists who threaten our nation. We've made substantial investments in our homeland 
security and disrupted plots that threatened to take American lives. We are filling 
unacceptable gaps revealed by the failed Christmas attack, with better airline security and 
swifter action on our intelligence. We've prohibited torture and strengthened partnerships 
from the Pacific to South Asia to the Arabian Peninsula. And in the last year, hundreds of al
Qaeda's fighters and affiliates, including many senior leaders, have been captured or killed ­­ 
far more than in 2008. 
And in Afghanistan, we're increasing our troops and training Afghan security forces so they 
can begin to take the lead in July of 2011, and our troops can begin to come home. We will
reward good governance, work to reduce corruption, and support the rights of all Afghans ­­  men and women alike. We're joined by allies and partners who have increased their own
commitments, and who will come together tomorrow in London to reaffirm our common
purpose. There will be difficult days ahead. But I am absolutely confident we will succeed.
As we take the fight to al Qaeda, we are responsibly leaving Iraq to its people. As a candidate,
I promised that I would end this war, and that is what I am doing as President. We will have 
all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August. We will support the Iraqi
government as they hold elections, and we will continue to partner with the Iraqi people to
promote regional peace and prosperity. But make no mistake: This war is ending, and all of 
our troops are coming home. 
Tonight, all of our men and women in uniform ­­ in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and around the world 
­­ have to know that they have our respect, our gratitude, our full support. And just as they 
must have the resources they need in war, we all have a responsibility to support them when
they come home. That's why we made the largest increase in investments for veterans in
decades last year. That's why we're building a 21st century VA. And that's why Michelle has 
joined with Jill Biden to forge a national commitment to support military families.
Now, even as we prosecute two wars, we're also confronting perhaps the greatest danger to
the American people ­­ the threat of nuclear weapons. I've embraced the vision of John F. 
Kennedy and Ronald Reagan through a strategy that reverses the spread of these weapons 
and seeks a world without them. To reduce our stockpiles and launchers, while ensuring our 
deterrent, the United States and Russia are completing negotiations on the farthest­reachings 
arms control treaty in nearly two decades. And at April's Nuclear Security Summit, we will
bring 44 nations together here in Washington, D.C. behind a clear goal: securing all
vulnerable nuclear materials around the world in four years, so that they never fall into the 
hands of terrorists. 
Now, these diplomatic efforts have also strengthened our hand in dealing with those nations 
that insist on violating international agreements in pursuit of nuclear weapons. That's why 
North Korea now faces increased isolation and stronger sanctions ­­ sanctions that are being 
vigorously enforced. That's why the international community is more united and the Islamic 
Republic of Iran is more isolated. And as Iran's leaders continue to ignore their obligations, 
there should be no doubt: They, too, will face growing consequences. That is a promise. 
That's the leadership that we are providing ­­ engagement that advances the common
security and prosperity of all people. We're working through the G20 to sustain a lasting 
global recovery.  We're working with Muslim communities around the world to promote 
science and education and innovation. We have gone from a bystander to a leader in the fight
against climate change. We're helping developing countries to feed themselves, and 
continuing the fight against HIV/AIDS. And we are launching a new initiative that will give us 
the capacity to respond faster and more effectively to bioterrorism or an infectious disease ­­  a plan that will counter threats at home and strengthen public health abroad. 
As we have for over 60 years, America takes these actions because our destiny is connected 
to those beyond our shores. But we also do it because it is right. That's why, as we meet here 
tonight, over 10,000 Americans are working with many nations to help the people of Haiti
recover and rebuild. That's why we stand with the girl who yearns to go to school in 
Afghanistan; why we support the human rights of the women marching through the streets of 
Iran; why we advocate for the young man denied a job by corruption in Guinea. For America 
must always stand on the side of freedom and human dignity. Always. 
Abroad, America's greatest source of strength has always been our ideals. The same is true at
home. We find unity in our incredible diversity, drawing on the promise enshrined in our 
Constitution: the notion that we're all created equal; that no matter who you are or what you
look like, if you abide by the law you should be protected by it; if you adhere to our common 
values you should be treated no different than anyone else. 
We must continually renew this promise. My Administration has a Civil Rights Division that is 
once again prosecuting civil rights violations and employment discrimination. We finally 
strengthened our laws to protect against crimes driven by hate.
This year, I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay 
Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are. It's the right
thing to do.  We're going to crack down on violations of equal pay laws so that women get equal pay for an
equal day's work. And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system ­­  to secure our borders and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone who plays by the rules 
can contribute to our economy and enrich our nations. 
In the end, it's our ideals, our values that built America ­­ values that allowed us to forge a 
nation made up of immigrants from every corner of the globe; values that drive our citizens 
still. Every day, Americans meet their responsibilities to their families and their 
employers. Time and again, they lend a hand to their neighbors and give back to their 
country. They take pride in their labor, and are generous in spirit. These aren't Republican
values or Democratic values that they're living by; business values or labor values. They're 
American values. 
Unfortunately, too many of our citizens have lost faith that our biggest institutions ­­ our 
corporations, our media, and, yes, our government ­­ still reflect these same values. Each of 
these institutions are full of honorable men and women doing important work that helps our 
country prosper. But each time a CEO rewards himself for failure, or a banker puts the rest of 
us at risk for his own selfish gain, people's doubts grow. Each time lobbyists game the system 
or politicians tear each other down instead of lifting this country up, we lose faith. The more 
that TV pundits reduce serious debates to silly arguments, big issues into sound bites, our 
citizens turn away.
No wonder there's so much cynicism out there. No wonder there's so much disappointment. 
I campaigned on the promise of change ­­ "Change we can believe in" ­­ the slogan went. And 
right now, I know there are many Americans who aren't sure if they still believe we can
change ­­ or that I can deliver it. But remember this: I never suggested that change would be 
easy, or that I could do it alone. Democracy in a nation of 300 million people can be noisy and 
messy and complicated. And when you try to do big things and make big changes, it stirs 
passions and controversy. That's just how it is. 
Those of us in public office can respond to this reality by playing it safe and avoid telling hard
truths and pointing fingers. We can do what's necessary to keep our poll numbers high, and 
get through the next election instead of doing what's best for the next generation. 
But I also know this: If people had made that decision 50 years ago, or 100 years ago, or 200
years ago, we wouldn't be here tonight.
The only reason we are here is because generations of Americans were unafraid to do what 
was hard; to do what was needed even when success was uncertain; to do what it took to
keep the dream of this nation alive for their children and their grandchildren. 
Our Administration has had some political setbacks this year, and some of them were 
deserved. But I wake up every day knowing that they are nothing compared to the setbacks 
that families all across this country have faced this year. And what keeps me going, what
keeps me fighting, is that despite all these setbacks, that spirit of determination and 
optimism, that fundamental decency that has always been at the core of the American people 
­­ that lives on. 
It lives on in the struggling small business owner who wrote to me of his company: "None of 
us," he said, "…are willing to consider, even slightly, that we might fail."
It lives on in the woman who said that even though she and her neighbors have felt the pain
of recession, "We are strong. We are resilient. We are American."
It lives on in the 8­year­old boy in Louisiana, who just sent me his allowance and asked if I
would give it to the people of Haiti. 
And it lives on in all the Americans who've dropped everything to go someplace they've never 
been and pull people they've never known from the rubble, prompting chants of "U.S.A.!
U.S.A.! U.S.A!" when another life was saved.
The spirit that has sustained this nation for more than two centuries lives on in you, its 
people.
We have finished a difficult year. We have come through a difficult decade. But a new year 
has come. A new decade stretches before us. We don't quit. I don't quit. Let's seize this 
moment ­­ to start anew, to carry the dream forward, and to strengthen our union once more. 
Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.
To Leader Reid, to Steny Hoyer, John Larson, Xavier Becerra, Jim Clyburn, Chris Van Hollen,
to an extraordinary leader and extraordinary Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and to all
the members here today, thank you very much for having me. Thanks for having me and
thanks for your tireless efforts waged on behalf of health insurance reform in this country.
I have the great pleasure of having a really nice library at the White House. And I was tooling
through some of the writings of some previous Presidents and I came upon this quote by
Abraham Lincoln: “I am not bound to win, but I’m bound to be true. I’m not bound to
succeed, but I’m bound to live up to what light I have.”
This debate has been a difficult debate. This process has been a difficult process. And this
year has been a difficult year for the American people. When I was sworn in, we were in the
midst of the worst recession since the Great Depression. Eight hundred thousand people per
month were losing their jobs. Millions of people were losing their health insurance. And the
financial system was on the verge of collapse.
And this body has taken on some of the toughest votes and some of the toughest decisions in
the history of Congress. Not because you were bound to win, but because you were bound to
be true. Because each and every one of you made a decision that at a moment of such
urgency, it was less important to measure what the polls said than to measure what was
right.
A year later, we’re in different circumstances. Because of the actions that you’ve taken, the
financial system has stabilized. The stock market has stabilized. Businesses are starting to
invest again. The economy, instead of contracting, is now growing again. There are signs
that people are going to start hiring again. There’s still tremendous hardship all across the
country, but there is a sense that we are making progress -- because of you.
But even before this crisis, each and every one of us knew that there were millions of people
across America who were living their own quiet crises. Maybe because they had a child who
had a preexisting condition and no matter how desperate they were, no matter what
insurance company they called, they couldn’t get coverage for that child. Maybe it was
somebody who had been forced into early retirement, in their 50s not yet eligible for
Medicare, and they couldn’t find a job and they couldn’t find health insurance, despite the fact
that they had some sort of chronic condition that had to be tended to.
Every single one of you at some point before you arrived in Congress and after you arrived in
Congress have met constituents with heart-breaking stories. And you’ve looked them in the
eye and you’ve said, we’re going to do something about it -- that’s why I want to go to
Congress.
And now, we’re on the threshold of doing something about it. We’re a day away. After a year
of debate, after every argument has been made, by just about everybody, we’re 24 hours
away.
As some of you know, I’m not somebody who spends a lot of time surfing the cable channels,
but I’m not completely in the bubble. I have a sense of what the coverage has been, and
mostly it’s an obsession with “What will this mean for the Democratic Party? What will this
mean for the President’s polls? How will this play out in November? Is this good or is this bad
for the Democratic majority? What does it mean for those swing districts?”
And I noticed that there’s been a lot of friendly advice offered all across town. Mitch
McConnell, John Boehner, Karl Rove -- they’re all warning you of the horrendous impact if you
support this legislation. Now, it could be that they are suddenly having a change of heart and
they are deeply concerned about their Democratic friends. They are giving you the best
possible advice in order to assure that Nancy Pelosi remains Speaker and Harry Reid remains
Leader and that all of you keep your seats. That’s a possibility.
But it may also be possible that they realize after health reform passes and I sign that
legislation into law, that it’s going to be a little harder to mischaracterize what this effort has
been all about.
Because this year, small businesses will start getting tax credits so that they can offer health
insurance to employees who currently don’t have it. Because this year, those same parents
who are worried about getting coverage for their children with preexisting conditions now are
assured that insurance companies have to give them coverage -- this year.  Because this year, insurance companies won’t suddenly be able to drop your coverage when
you get sick -- or impose lifetime limits or restrictive limits on the coverage that you have.
Maybe they know that this year, for the first time, young people will be able to stay on their
parents’ health insurance until they’re 26 years old and they’re thinking that just might be
popular all across the country.
And what they also know is what won’t happen. They know that after this legislation passes
and after I sign this bill, lo and behold nobody is pulling the plug on Granny. It turns out that
in fact people who like their health insurance are going to be able to keep their health
insurance; that there’s no government takeover. People will discover that if they like their
doctor, they’ll be keeping their doctor. In fact, they’re more likely to keep their doctor
because of a stronger system.
It’ll turn out that this piece of historic legislation is built on the private insurance system that
we have now and runs straight down the center of American political thought. It turns out
this is a bill that tracks the recommendations not just of Democrat Tom Daschle, but also
Republicans Bob Dole and Howard Baker; that this is a middle-of-the-road bill that is designed
to help the American people in an area of their lives where they urgently need help.
Now, there are some who wanted a single-payer government-run system. That’s not this bill.
The Republicans wanted what I called the “foxes guard the henhouse approach” in which we
further deregulate the insurance companies and let them run wild, the notion being somehow
that that was going to lower costs for the American people. I don’t know a serious health care
economist who buys that idea, but that was their concept. And we rejected that, because
what we said was we want to create a system in which health care is working not for
insurance companies but it’s working for the American people, it’s working for middle class
families.
So what did we do? What is the essence of this legislation? Number one, this is the toughest
insurance reforms in history. We are making sure that the system of private insurance works
for ordinary families. A prescription -- this is a patient’s bill of rights on steroids. So many of
you individually have worked on these insurance reforms -- they are in this package -- to
make sure that families are getting a fair deal; that if they’re paying a premium, that they’re
getting a good service in return; making sure that employers, if they are paying premiums for
their employees, that their employees are getting the coverage that they expect; that
insurance companies are not going to game the system with fine print and rescissions and
dropping people when they need it most, but instead are going to have to abide by some basic
rules of the road that exemplify a sense of fairness and good value. That’s number one.
The second thing this does is it creates a pool, a marketplace, where individuals and small
businesses, who right now are having a terrible time out there getting health insurance, are
going to be able to purchase health insurance as part of a big group -- just like federal
employees, just like members of Congress. They are now going to be part of a pool that can
negotiate for better rates, better quality, more competition. And that’s why the Congressional Budget Office says this will lower people’s rates for
comparable plans by 14 to 20 percent. That’s not my numbers -- that’s the Congressional
Budget Office’s numbers. So that people will have choice and competition just like members
of Congress have choice and competition.
Number three, if people still can’t afford it we’re going to provide them some tax credits -- the
biggest tax cut for small businesses and working families when it comes to health care in
history.
And number four, this is the biggest reduction in our deficit since the Budget Balance Act --
one of the biggest deficit reduction measures in history -- over $1.3 trillion that will help put
us on the path of fiscal responsibility.
And that’s before we count all the game-changing measures that are going to assure, for
example, that instead of having five tests when you go to the doctor you just get one; that
the delivery system is working for patients, not just working for billings. And everybody who’s
looked at it says that every single good idea to bend the cost curve and start actually reducing
health care costs are in this bill.
So that’s what this effort is all about. Toughest insurance reforms in history. A marketplace
so people have choice and competition who right now don’t have it and are seeing their
premiums go up 20, 30, 40, 50 percent. Reductions in the cost of health care for millions of
American families, including those who have health insurance. The Business Roundtable did
their own study and said that this would potentially save employers $3,000 per employee on
their health care because of the measures in this legislation.
And by the way, not only does it reduce the deficit -- we pay for it responsibly in ways that
the other side of the aisle that talks a lot about fiscal responsibility but doesn’t seem to be
able to walk the walk can’t claim when it comes to their prescription drug bill. We are actually
doing it. This is paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit -- it will reduce the deficit.
Now, is this bill perfect? Of course not. Will this solve every single problem in our health care
system right away? No. There are all kinds of ideas that many of you have that aren’t
included in this legislation. I know that there has been discussion, for example, of how we’re
going to deal with regional disparities and I know that there was a meeting with Secretary
Sebelius to assure that we can continue to try to make sure that we’ve got a system that
gives people the best bang for their buck.
So this is not -- there are all kinds of things that many of you would like to see that isn’t in
this legislation. There are some things I’d like to see that’s not in this legislation. But is this
the single most important step that we have taken on health care since Medicare?
Absolutely. Is this the most important piece of domestic legislation in terms of giving a break
to hardworking middle class families out there since Medicare? Absolutely. Is this a vast
improvement over the status quo? Absolutely.

Now, I still know this is a tough vote, though. I know this is a tough vote. I’ve talked to
many of you individually. And I have to say that if you honestly believe in your heart of
hearts, in your conscience, that this is not an improvement over the status quo; if despite all
the information that’s out there that says that without serious reform efforts like this one
people’s premiums are going to double over the next five or 10 years, that folks are going to
keep on getting letters from their insurance companies saying that their premium just went up
40 or 50 percent; if you think that somehow it’s okay that we have millions of hardworking
Americans who can’t get health care and that it’s all right, it’s acceptable, in the wealthiest
nation on Earth that there are children with chronic illnesses that can’t get the care that they
need -- if you think that the system is working for ordinary Americans rather than the
insurance companies, then you should vote no on this bill. If you can honestly say that, then
you shouldn’t support it. You’re here to represent your constituencies and if you think your
constituencies honestly wouldn’t be helped, you shouldn’t vote for this.
But if you agree that the system is not working for ordinary families, if you’ve heard the same
stories that I’ve heard everywhere, all across the country, then help us fix this system. Don't
do it for me. Don’t do it for Nancy Pelosi or Harry Reid. Do it for all those people out there
who are struggling.
Some of you know I get 10 letters a day that I read out of the 40,000 that we receive.
Started reading some of the ones that I got this morning. “Dear President Obama, my
daughter, a wonderful person, lost her job. She has no health insurance. She had a blood
clot in her brain. She’s now disabled, can’t get care.” “Dear President Obama, I don’t yet
qualify for Medicare. COBRA is about to run out. I am desperate, don't know what to do.”
Do it for them. Do it for people who are really scared right now through no fault of their own,
who’ve played by the rules, who’ve done all the right things, and have suddenly found out
that because of an accident, because of an ailment, they’re about to lose their house; or they
can’t provide the help to their kids that they need; or they’re a small business who up until
now has always taken pride in providing care for their workers and it turns out that they just
can’t afford to do it anymore and they’ve having to make a decision about do I keep providing
health insurance for my workers or do I just drop their coverage or do I not hire some people
because I simply can’t afford it -- it’s all being gobbled up by the insurance companies.
Don’t do it for me. Don’t do it for the Democratic Party. Do it for the American people.
They’re the ones who are looking for action right now.
I know this is a tough vote. And I am actually confident -- I’ve talked to some of you
individually -- that it will end up being the smart thing to do politically because I believe that
good policy is good politics. I am convinced that when you go out there and you are standing
tall and you are saying I believe that this is the right thing to do for my constituents and the
right thing to do for America, that ultimately the truth will out.

I had a wonderful conversation with Betsy Markey. I don't know if Betsy is around here.
There she is right there. Betsy is in a tough district. The biggest newspaper is somewhat
conservative, as Betsy described. They weren’t real happy with health care reform. They
were opposed to it. Betsy, despite the pressure, announced that she was in favor of this bill.
And lo and behold, the next day that same newspaper runs an editorial saying, you know
what, we’ve considered this, we’ve looked at the legislation, and we actually are pleased that
Congresswoman Markey is supporting the legislation.
When I see John Boccieri stand up proud with a whole bunch of his constituencies -- in as
tough a district as there is and stand up with a bunch of folks from his district with preexisting
conditions and saying, you know, I don’t know what is going on Washington but I know what’s
going on with these families -- I look at him with pride.
Now, I can’t guarantee that this is good politics. Every one of you know your districts better
than I do. You talk to folks. You’re under enormous pressure. You’re getting robocalls.
You’re getting e-mails that are tying up the communications system. I know the pressure
you’re under. I get a few comments made about me. I don’t know if you’ve noticed. I’ve
been in your shoes. I know what it’s like to take a tough vote.
But what did Lincoln say? “I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true.” Two
generations ago, folks who were sitting in your position, they made a decision -- we are going
to make sure that seniors and the poor have health care coverage that they can count on.
And they did the right thing.
And I’m sure at the time they were making that vote, they weren’t sure how the politics were
either, any more than the people who made the decision to make sure that Social Security
was in place knew how the politics would play out, or folks who passed the civil rights acts
knew how the politics were going to play out. They were not bound to win, but they were
bound to be true.
And now we’ve got middle class Americans, don’t have Medicare, don’t have Medicaid,
watching the employer-based system fray along the edges or being caught in terrible
situations. And the question is, are we going to be true to them?
Sometimes I think about how I got involved in politics. I didn’t think of myself as a potential
politician when I get out of college. I went to work in neighborhoods, working with Catholic
churches in poor neighborhoods in Chicago, trying to figure out how people could get a little
bit of help. And I was skeptical about politics and politicians, just like a lot of Americans are
skeptical about politics and politicians are right now. Because my working assumption was
when push comes to shove, all too often folks in elected office, they’re looking for themselves
and not looking out for the folks who put them there; that there are too many compromises;
that the special interests have too much power; they just got too much clout; there’s too
much big money washing around. And I decided finally to get involved because I realized if I wasn’t willing to step up and be
true to the things I believe in, then the system wouldn’t change. Every single one of you had
that same kind of moment at the beginning of your careers. Maybe it was just listening to
stories in your neighborhood about what was happening to people who’d been laid off of
work. Maybe it was your own family experience, somebody got sick and didn’t have health
care and you said something should change.
Something inspired you to get involved, and something inspired you to be a Democrat instead
of running as a Republican. Because somewhere deep in your heart you said to yourself, I
believe in an America in which we don’t just look out for ourselves, that we don’t just tell
people you’re on your own, that we are proud of our individualism, we are proud of our
liberty, but we also have a sense of neighborliness and a sense of community -- and we are
willing to look out for one another and help people who are vulnerable and help people who
are down on their luck and give them a pathway to success and give them a ladder into the
middle class. That’s why you decided to run.
And now a lot of us have been here a while and everybody here has taken their lumps and
their bruises. And it turns out people have had to make compromises, and you’ve been away
from families for a long time and you’ve missed special events for your kids sometimes. And
maybe there have been times where you asked yourself, why did I ever get involved in politics
in the first place? And maybe things can’t change after all. And when you do something
courageous, it turns out sometimes you may be attacked. And sometimes the very people
you thought you were trying to help may be angry at you and shout at you. And you say to
yourself, maybe that thing that I started with has been lost.
But you know what? Every once in a while, every once in a while a moment comes where you
have a chance to vindicate all those best hopes that you had about yourself, about this
country, where you have a chance to make good on those promises that you made in all those
town meetings and all those constituency breakfasts and all that traveling through the district,
all those people who you looked in the eye and you said, you know what, you’re right, the
system is not working for you and I’m going to make it a little bit better.
And this is one of those moments. This is one of those times where you can honestly say to
yourself, doggone it, this is exactly why I came here. This is why I got into politics. This is
why I got into public service. This is why I’ve made those sacrifices. Because I believe so
deeply in this country and I believe so deeply in this democracy and I’m willing to stand up
even when it’s hard, even when it’s tough.
Every single one of you have made that promise not just to your constituents but to yourself.
And this is the time to make true on that promise. We are not bound to win, but we are
bound to be true. We are not bound to succeed, but we are bound to let whatever light we
have shine. We have been debating health care for decades. It has now been debated for a
year. It is in your hands. It is time to pass health care reform for America, and I am confident that
you are going to do it tomorrow.
Thank you very much, House of Representatives. Let’s get this done.
How’s it going, Bagram? Well, you know, it turns out that the American people, they let me use this plane
called Air Force One. And so I thought I’d come over and say hello.
Couple of people I want to thank, in addition to Sergeant Major Eric Johnson for the outstanding introduction
and his great service. I want to thank Major General Mike Scaparrotti. Thank you for your great work as
commanding general. I want to thank Ms. Dawn Liberi, who is the senior civilian representative of Regional
Command East, for her outstanding work; and Brigadier General Steven Kwast, commander -- commander
455th Air Expeditionary Wing. Thank you all for your outstanding service. Give them a big round of
applause.
Thank you for the unbelievable welcome. I know this was on a little bit of short notice.
No worries. It is great to be here at Bagram, and it’s great to see all the services.
We’ve got Air Force, we’ve got Army -- we’ve got Navy -- we’ve got some Marines in the house. And we’ve
got a lot of civilians here too -- who are making an outstanding contribution to this effort, and I’m honored to
be joined by America’s outstanding civilian military leadership team here in Afghanistan, Ambassador Karl
Eikenberry, who’s doing outstanding work, and the commander of our 43-nation coalition, General Stan
McChrystal. The two of them together have paired up to do an extraordinarily difficult task, but they are
doing it extraordinarily well and we are proud of them. Please give your outstanding team a big round of
applause. They’ve got my full confidence and my full support.
We’re also joined by troops from some of our coalition partners, because this is not simply an American
mission or even just a NATO mission.
Al Qaeda and their extremist allies are a threat to the people of Afghanistan and a threat to the people of
America, but they’re also a threat to people all around the world, and that’s why we’re so proud to have our
coalition partners here with us. Thank you very much for the great work that you do. We salute you and we
honor you for all the sacrifices you make, and you are a true friend of the United States of America. Thank
you very much.
And we also salute the members of the Afghan National Army who are fighting alongside all of you. They’re
risking their lives to protect their country. And as I told President Karzai today, the United States is a partner
but our intent is to make sure that the Afghans have the capacity to provide for their own security. That is
core to our mission, and we are proud of the work that they are doing and the continuing increased capacity
that we’re seeing out of Afghan national security forces. So thank you very much for the great work you’re
doing to take responsibility for security here in your own country.
And to the Afghan people, I want to say that I’m honored to be a guest in your country. Now, the Afghans
have suffered for decades -- decades of war. But we are here to help Afghans forge a hard-won peace
while realizing the extraordinary potential of the Afghan people, Afghanistan’s sons and daughters, from the
soldiers and the police to the farmers and the young students. And we want to build a lasting partnership
founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect, and I’m looking forward to returning to Afghanistan many
times in the years to come.
Now, I know for most of you, you didn’t get a lot of notice that I was coming. But I want you to understand,
there’s no visit that I considered more important than this visit I’m making right now, because I have no
greater honor than serving as your Commander-in-Chief. And it is a privilege to look out and see the
extraordinary efforts of America’s sons and daughters here in Afghanistan. So my main job here today is to
say thank you on behalf of the entire American people.
You are part of the finest military in the history of the world, and we are proud of you. And so I want you to
know that everybody back home is proud of you. Everybody back home is grateful. And everybody
understands the sacrifices that you have made and your families have made to keep America safe and to
keep America secure in this vital mission.
And I know it’s not easy. You’re far away from home. You miss your kids. You miss your spouses, your
family, your friends. Some of you, this is your second or your third or your fourth tour of duty. I’ll tell you
right now the same thing that I said at West Point last December. If I thought for a minute that America’s
vital interests were not served, were not at stake here in Afghanistan, I would order all of you home right
away.
So I want you to know, I want every American serving in Afghanistan, military and civilian, to know, whether
you’re working the flight line here at Bagram or patrolling a village down in Helmand, whether you’re
standing watch at a forward operating base or training our Afghan partners or working with the Afghan
government, your services are absolutely necessary, absolutely essential to America’s safety and security.
Those folks back home are relying on you.
We can’t forget why we’re here. We did not choose this war. This was not an act of America wanting to
expand its influence; of us wanting to meddle in somebody else’s business. We were attacked viciously on
9/11. Thousands of our fellow countrymen and women were killed. And this is the region where the
perpetrators of that crime, al Qaeda, still base their leadership. Plots against our homeland, plots against
our allies, plots against the Afghan and Pakistani people are taking place as we speak right here. And if this
region slides backwards, if the Taliban retakes this country and al Qaeda can operate with impunity, then
more American lives will be at stake. The Afghan people will lose their chance at progress and prosperity.
And the world will be significantly less secure.
And as long as I’m your Commander-in-Chief, I am not going to let that happen. That’s why you are here.
I’ve made a promise to all of you who serve. I will never send you into harm’s way unless it’s absolutely
necessary. I anguish in thinking about the sacrifices that so many of you make. That’s why I promise I will
never send you out unless it is necessary.
But that’s only part of the promise, because the other part of the promise is that when it is absolutely
necessary, you will be backed up by a clear mission and the right strategy to finish the job, to get the job
done. And I am confident all of you are going to get the job done right here in Afghanistan. I am confident
of that.
That’s why I ordered more troops and civilians here into Afghanistan shortly after taking office. That’s why
we took a hard look and forged a new strategy and committed more resources in December. That’s why we
pushed our friends and allies and partners to pony up more resources themselves, more commitments of
aid, and additional forces and trainers.
Our broad mission is clear: We are going to disrupt and dismantle, defeat and destroy al Qaeda and its
extremist allies. That is our mission. And to accomplish that goal, our objectives here in Afghanistan are
also clear: We’re going to deny al Qaeda safe haven. We’re going to reverse the Taliban’s momentum.
We’re going to strengthen the capacity of Afghan security forces and the Afghan government so that they
can begin taking responsibility and gain confidence of the Afghan people.
And our strategy includes a military effort that takes the fight to the Taliban while creating the conditions for
greater security and a transition to the Afghans; but also a civilian effort that improves the daily lives of the
Afghan people, and combats corruption; and a partnership with Pakistan and its people, because we can’t
uproot extremists and advance security and opportunity unless we succeed on both sides of the border.
Most of you understand that.
Many of the troops that I ordered to Afghanistan have begun to arrive, and more are on the way. And we’ll
continue to work with Congress to make sure that you’ve got the equipment that you need, particularly as
we complete our drawdown in Iraq. We’re providing more helicopters, we’re providing more intelligence and
reconnaissance capabilities, more special operations forces, more armored vehicles that can save lives.
And here in Afghanistan you’ve gone on the offensive. And the American people back home are noticing.
We have seen a huge increase in support in -- stateside, because people understand the kinds of sacrifices
that you guys are making, and the clarity of mission that you’re bringing to bear.
And together with our coalition and Afghan partners, our troops have pushed the Taliban out of their
stronghold in Marja. We’ve changed the way we operate and interact with the Afghan people. We see
Afghans reclaiming their communities, and we see new partnerships that will help them build their own
future and increase their security.
And across the border, Pakistan is mounting major offensives. We’ve seen violent extremists pushed out of
their sanctuaries. We’ve struck major blows against al Qaeda leadership as well as the Taliban’s. They are
hunkered down. They’re worried about their own safety. It’s harder for them to move, it’s harder for them to
train and to plot and to attack, and all of that makes America safer. And we are going to keep them on the
run because that is what’s going to be required in order to assure that our families back home have the
security that they need. That’s the work that you are doing.
So thanks to you, there’s been progress these last several months. But we know there are going to be
some difficult days ahead. There’s going to be setbacks. We face a determined enemy. But we also know
this: The United States of America does not quit once it starts on something. You don’t quit, the American
armed services does not quit, we keep at it, we persevere, and together with our partners we will prevail. I
am absolutely confident of that.
And I also want you to know that as you’re doing your duty here, we’re going to do right by you back home.
We’re going to help take care of your families, and that’s why the First Lady Michelle Obama visited with
military families and makes sure that their needs are met. That’s why she stays after me once she gets
home, when I’m at the White House. And we’re going to make sure that we are keeping to improve your
pay and your benefits, but also things like childcare and support that ensure that you’ve got a little bit of
security knowing your family is being looked after back home.
And we’ll be there for your when you come home. It’s why we’re improving care for our wounded warriors,
especially those with PTSD and traumatic brain injuries. We’re moving forward with the Post-9/11 GI Bill so
you and your families can pursue your dreams. And we’ve made the biggest increase in the VA budget in
30 years, because we’re going to keep our sacred trust with all those who serve.
You’ve been there for us, tour after tour, year after year, at a time when too many American institutions have
let us down, when too many institutions have put short-term gain in front of a commitment to duty and a
commitment to what’s right. You’ve met your responsibilities, you’ve done your duty -- not just when it’s
easy. That’s why you’ve inspired your fellow Americans. That’s why you inspire me. That’s why you’ve
earned your place next to the very greatest of American generations.
And all of you represent the virtues and the values that America so desperately needs right now: sacrifice
and selflessness, honor and decency. That’s why you’re here today. That’s what you represent.
I’ve seen your sense of purpose and your willingness to step forward and serve in a time of danger. I’ve
seen it from the Marines I’ve met at Camp Lejeune to the cadets at West Point, from the midshipmen at
Annapolis to the troops I’ve met in Iraq, and at bases across America and here in Afghanistan. I’ve seen
your courage and your heroism and the story of a young Sergeant First Class named Jared Monti who gave
his life here in Afghanistan to save his fellow soldiers and his parents. I was proud to present with our
nation’s highest military declaration, the Medal of Honor.
I’ve seen your tenacity -- I’ve seen your tenacity and determination in our wounded warriors in Landstuhl
and Walter Reed -- Americans fighting to stand again and to walk again and to get back with -- get back with
their units; incredible dedication, incredible focus, incredible pride. And I’ve been humbled by your sacrifice
and the solemn homecoming of flag-draped coffins at Dover, to the headstones in Section 60 at Arlington
where the fallen from this war rest in peace alongside the fellow heroes of America’s story.
So here in Afghanistan each one of you is part of an unbroken line of American service members who’ve
sacrificed for over two centuries. You’re protecting your fellow citizens from danger. You’re serving
alongside old allies and new friends. You’re bringing hope and opportunity to a people who have known a
lot of pain and a lot of suffering.
And I know that sometimes when you’re watching TV, the politics back home may look a little messy, and
people are yelling and hollering, and Democrats this and Republicans that. I want you to understand this:
There’s no daylight when it comes to support of all of you. There’s no daylight when it comes to supporting
our troops. That brings us together. We are all incredibly proud. We all honor what you do. And all of you
show all of America what’s possible when people come together, not based on color or creed, not based on
faith or station, but based on a commitment to serve together, to bleed together and to succeed together as
one people, as Americans.
Make no mistake, this fight matters to us. It matters to us, it matters to our allies, it matters to the Afghan
people. Al Qaeda and the violent extremists who you’re fighting against want to destroy. But all of you want
to build -- and that is something essential about America. They’ve got no respect for human life. You see
dignity in every human being. That’s part of what we value as Americans. They want to drive races and
regions and religions apart. You want to bring people together and see the world move forward together.
They offer fear, in other words, and you offer hope.
And that’s why it is so important that you know that the entire country stands behind you. That’s why you
put on that uniform, because in an uncertain world, the United States of America will always stand up for the
security of nations and the dignity of human beings. That’s who we are. That is what we do.
Much has happened to our country and to the world since 9/11. But I’m confident that so long as brave men
and women like you -- Americans who are willing to serve selflessly half a world away on behalf of their
fellow citizens and the dreams of people they’ve never met -- so long as there are folks like you, then I’m
confident that our nation will endure, and hope will overcome fear. And I am confident that better days lie
ahead.
So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States Armed Forces. And God
bless the United States of America.
I have to say that I didn't anticipate speaking today, but the importance, I think, of this issue 
is one in which I feel it's important for me to address this body.
You know, during the election I had the occasion of meeting a woman who had supported me 
in my campaign. And she decided to come to shake my hand and take a photograph. A 
wonderful woman, she wasn't asking for anything, and I was very grateful that she took time 
to come by. It was a[n] unexceptional moment except for the fact that she was born in 1894. 
And her name was Marguerite Lewis, an African­American woman who had been born in
Louisiana, born in the shadow of slavery, born at a time when lynchings were commonplace, 
born at a time when African­Americans and women could not vote.
And yet, over the course of decades she had participated in broadening our democracy and 
ensuring that, in fact, at some point, if not herself, then her children and her grandchildren
and her great­grandchildren would be in a position in which they could, too, call themselves 
citizens of the United States and make certain that this Government works not just on behalf 
of the mighty and the powerful but also on behalf of people like her.
And so the fact that she voted and that her vote was counted in this election was of supreme 
importance to her and it is the memory of talking to her and shaking her hand that causes me 
to rise on this occasion. 
I am absolutely convinced that the President of the United States, George Bush, won this 
election. I also believe that he got more votes in Ohio. I think, as has already been said by 
some of the speakers in this body, this is not an issue in which we are challenging the 
outcome of the election. And I think it's important for us to separate out the issue of the 
election outcome with the election process. 
I was not in this body four years ago, but what I observed as a voter, as a citizen of Illinois 
four years ago, were troubling evidence of the fact that not every vote was being counted.
And I think that it is unfortunate four years later that we continue to see circumstances in
which people who believe that they have the right to vote ­­ who show up at the polls ­­ still
continue to confront the sort of problems that have been documented as taking place, not just
in Ohio, but [in] places all across the country. 
I would strongly urge that this Chamber, as well as the House of Representatives, take it upon
itself once and for all to reform this system. There is no reason, at a time when we have 
enormous battles taking place ideologically all across the globe, at a time when we're try to
make certain that we encourage democracy in Iraq and Afghanistan and other places 
throughout the world, that we have the legitimacy of our elections challenged, rightly or 
wrongly, by people who are not certain as to whether our processes are fair and just. This is 
something that we can fix. We have experts on both sides of the aisle who know how to fix it. 
What we've lacked is the political will. 
I would strongly urge that, in a circumstance in which too many voters have stood in long 
lines for hours, in which too many voters have cast votes on machines that jam or malfunction
or suck the votes without a trace, in which too many voters try to register to vote only to
discover that their names don't appear on the roles, or that partisan political interests and 
those that serve them have worked hard to throw up every barrier to recognize them as 
lawful, in which too many voters will know that there are different elections for different parts 
of the country and that these differences turn shamefully on differences of wealth or of race, 
in which too many voters have to contend with state officials, servants of the public, who put
partisan or personal political interests ahead of the public in administering our elections ­­ in
such circumstances, we have an obligation to fix the problem. 
And I have to add that this is not a problem unique to this election, and it is not a partisan
problem. Keep in mind, I come from Cook County, from Chicago, in which there is a long 
record of these kinds of problems taking place and disadvantaging Republicans as well as 
Democrats. So I would ask that all of us rise up and use this occasion to amend this problem.
Good morning President Taylor, Board of Trustees, faculty, parents, family, friends, the
community of Galesburg, the class of 1955 -- which I understand was out partying last night,
and yet still showed up here on time -- and most of all, the Class of 2005. Congratulations on
your graduation, and thank you -- thank you for the honor of allowing me to be a part of it.
Thank you also, Mr. President, for this honorary degree. It was only a couple of years ago that
I stopped paying my student loans in law school. Had I known it was this easy, I would have
ran [sic] for the United States Senate earlier.
You know, it has been about six months now since you sent me to Washington as your United
States Senator. I recognize that not all of you voted for me, so for those of you muttering
under your breath "I didn’t send you anywhere," that's ok too. Maybe we’ll hold -- What do
you call it? -- a little Pumphandle after the ceremony. Change your mind for the next time.
It has been a fascinating journey thus far. Each time I walk onto the Senate floor, I'm
reminded of the history, for good and for ill, that has been made there. But there have been a
few surreal moments.  For example, I remember the day before I was sworn in, myself and my staff, we decided to
hold a press conference in our office. Now, keep in mind that I am ranked 99th in seniority. I
was proud that I wasn’t ranked dead last until I found out that it’s just because Illinois is
bigger than Colorado. So I’m 99th in seniority, and all the reporters are crammed into the tiny
transition office that I have, which is right next to the janitor’s closet in the basement of the
Dirksen Office Building. It’s my first day in the building, I have not taken a single vote, I have
not introduced one bill, had not even sat down in my desk, and this very earnest reporter
raises his hand and says:
“Senator Obama, what is your place in history?”
I did what you just did, which is laugh out loud. I said, "place in history?" I thought he was
kidding. At that point, I wasn’t even sure the other Senators would save a place for me at the
cool kids’ table.
But as I was thinking about the words to share with this class, about what’s next, about
what’s possible, and what opportunities lay ahead, I actually think it’s not a bad question for
you, the class of 2005, to ask yourselves: What will be your place in history?
In other eras, across distant lands, this question could be answered with relative ease and
certainty. As a servant in Rome, you knew you’d spend your life forced to build somebody
else’s Empire. As a peasant in 11th Century China, you knew that no matter how hard you
worked, the local warlord might come and take everything you had -- and you also knew that
famine might come knocking at the door. As a subject of King George, you knew that your
freedom of worship and your freedom to speak and to build your own life would be ultimately
limited by the throne.
And then America happened.
A place where destiny was not a destination, but a journey to be shared and shaped and
remade by people who had the gall, the temerity to believe that, against all odds, they could
form “a more perfect union” on this new frontier.
And as people around the world began to hear the tale of the lowly colonists who overthrew
an empire for the sake of an idea, they started to come. Across oceans and the ages, they
settled in Boston and Charleston, Chicago and St. Louis, Kalamazoo and Galesburg, to try and
build their own American Dream. This collective dream moved forward imperfectly -- it was
scarred by our treatment of native peoples, betrayed by slavery, clouded by the subjugation
of women, shaken by war and depression. And yet, brick by brick, rail by rail, calloused hand
by calloused hand, people kept dreaming, and building, and working, and marching, and
petitioning their government, until they made America a land where the question of our place
in history is not answered for us. It’s answered by us. Have we failed at times? Absolutely. Will you occasionally fail when you embark on your own
American journey? You surely will. But the test is not perfection.
The true test of the American ideal is whether we’re able to recognize our failings and then
rise together to meet the challenges of our time. Whether we allow ourselves to be shaped by
events and history, or whether we act to shape them. Whether chance of birth or
circumstance decides life’s big winners and losers, or whether we build a community where, at
the very least, everyone has a chance to work hard, get ahead, and reach their dreams.
We have faced this choice before.
At the end of the Civil War, when farmers and their families began moving into the cities to
work in the big factories that were sprouting up all across America, we had to decide: Do we
do nothing and allow captains of industry and robber barons to run roughshod over the
economy and workers by competing to see who can pay the lowest wages at the worst
working conditions? Or do we try to make the system work by setting up basic rules for the
market, instituting the first public schools, busting up monopolies, letting workers organize
into unions?
We chose to act, and we rose together.
When the irrational exuberance of the Roaring Twenties came crashing down with the stock
market, we had to decide: do we follow the call of leaders who would do nothing, or the call of
a leader who, perhaps because of his physical paralysis, refused to accept political paralysis?
We chose to act -- regulating the market, putting people back to work, expanding bargaining
rights to include health care and a secure retirement -- and together we rose.
When World War II required the most massive home front mobilization in history and we
needed every single American to lend a hand, we had to decide: Do we listen to skeptics who
told us it wasn’t possible to produce that many tanks and planes? Or, did we build Roosevelt’s
Arsenal for Democracy and grow our economy even further by providing our returning heroes
with a chance to go to college and own their own home?
Again, we chose to act, and again, we rose together.
Today, at the beginning of this young century, we have to decide again. But this time, it is
your turn to choose.
Here in Galesburg, you know what this new challenge is. You’ve seen it. All of you, your first
year in college saw what happened at 9/11. It’s already been noted, the degree to which your
lives will be intertwined with the war on terrorism that currently is taking place. But what
you’ve also seen, perhaps not as spectacularly, is the fact that when you drive by the old
Maytag plant around lunchtime, no one walks out anymore. I saw it during the campaign when I met union guys who worked at the plant for 20, 30 years
and now wonder what they’re gonna do at the age of 55 without a pension or health care;
when I met the man who’s son needed a new liver but because he’d been laid off, didn’t know
if he could afford to provide his child the care that he needed.
It’s as if someone changed the rules in the middle of the game and no wonder -- no one
bothered to tell these folks. And, in reality, the rules have changed.
It started with technology and automation that rendered entire occupations obsolete. When
was the last time anybody here stood in line for the bank teller instead of going to the ATM, or
talked to a switchboard operator? Then it continued when companies like Maytag were able to
pick up and move their factories to some under developed country where workers were a lot
cheaper than they are in the United States.
As Tom Friedman points out in his new book, The World Is Flat, over the last decade or so,
these forces -- technology and globalization -- have combined like never before. So that while
most of us have been paying attention to how much easier technology has made our own lives
-- sending e-mails back and forth on our blackberries, surfing the Web on our cell phones,
instant messaging with friends across the world -- a quiet revolution has been breaking down
barriers and connecting the world’s economies. Now business not only has the ability to move
jobs wherever there’s a factory, but wherever there’s an internet connection.
Countries like India and China realized this. They understand that they no longer need to be
just a source of cheap labor or cheap exports. They can compete with us on a global scale.
The one resource they needed were skilled, educated workers. So they started schooling their
kids earlier, longer, with a greater emphasis on math and science and technology, until their
most talented students realized they don’t have to come to America to have a decent life --
they can stay right where they are.
The result? China is graduating four times the number of engineers that the United States is
graduating. Not only are those Maytag employees competing with Chinese and Indian and
Indonesian and Mexican workers, you are too. Today, accounting firms are e-mailing your tax
returns to workers in India who will figure them out and send them back to you as fast as any
worker in Illinois or Indiana could.
When you lose your luggage in Boston at an airport, tracking it down may involve a call to an
agent in Bangalore, who will find it by making a phone call to Baltimore. Even the Associated
Press has outsourced some of their jobs to writers all over the world who can send in a story
at a click of a mouse.
As Prime Minister Tony Blair has said, in this new economy, "Talent is the 21st century
wealth." If you've got the skills, you've got the education, and you have the opportunity to
upgrade and improve both, you’ll be able to compete and win anywhere. If not, the fall will be
further and harder than it ever was before. So what do we do about this? How does America find its way in this new, global
economy? What will our place in history be?
Like so much of the American story, once again, we face a choice. Once again, there are those
who believe that there isn’t much we can do about this as a nation. That the best idea is to
give everyone one big refund on their government -- divvy it up by individual portions, in the
form of tax breaks, hand it out, and encourage everyone to use their share to go buy their
own health care, their own retirement plan, their own child care, their own education, and so
on.
In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society. But in our past there has been another
term for it -- Social Darwinism -- every man or woman for him or herself. It’s a tempting idea,
because it doesn’t require much thought or ingenuity. It allows us to say that those whose
health care or tuition may rise faster than they can afford -- tough luck. It allows us to say to
the Maytag workers who have lost their job -- life isn’t fair. It let’s us say to the child who was
born into poverty -- pull yourself up by your bootstraps. And it is especially tempting because
each of us believes we will always be the winner in life’s lottery, that we’re the one who will be
the next Donald Trump, or at least we won’t be the chump who Donald Trump says: “You’re
fired!”
But there is a problem. It won’t work. It ignores our history. It ignores the fact that it’s been
government research and investment that made the railways possible and the internet
possible. It’s been the creation of a massive middle class, through decent wages and benefits
and public schools that allowed us all to prosper. Our economic dependence depended on
individual initiative. It depended on a belief in the free market; but it has also depended on
our sense of mutual regard for each other, the idea that everybody has a stake in the country,
that we’re all in it together and everybody’s got a shot at opportunity. That’s what’s produced
our unrivaled political stability.
And so if we do nothing in the face of globalization, more people will continue to lose their
health care. Fewer kids will be able to afford the diploma you’re about to receive.
More companies like United Airlines won’t be able to provide pensions for their employees.
And those Maytag workers will be joined in the unemployment line by any worker whose skills
can be bought and sold on the global market.
So today I’m here to tell you what most of you already know. This is not us -- the option that
I just mentioned. Doing nothing. It’s not how our story ends -- not in this country. America is
a land of big dreamers and big hopes.
It is this hope that has sustained us through revolution and civil war, depression and world
war, a struggle for civil and social rights and the brink of nuclear crisis. And it is because our
dreamers dreamed that we have emerged from each challenge more united, more prosperous,
and more admired than before.

So let’s dream. Instead of doing nothing or simply defending 20th century solutions, let’s
imagine together what we could do to give every American a fighting chance in the 21st
century.
What if we prepared every child in America with the education and skills they need to compete
in the new economy? If we made sure that college was affordable for everyone who wanted
to go? If we walked up to those Maytag workers and we said “Your old job is not coming back,
but a new job will be there because we’re going to seriously retrain you and there’s life-long
education that’s waiting for you -- the sorts of opportunities that Knox has created with the
Strong Futures scholarship program.
What if no matter where you worked or how many times you switched jobs, you had health
care and a pension that stayed with you always, so you all had the flexibility to move to a
better job or start a new business? What if instead of cutting budgets for research and
development and science, we fueled the genius and the innovation that will lead to the new
jobs and new industries of the future?
Right now, all across America, there are amazing discoveries being made. If we supported
these discoveries on a national level, if we committed ourselves to investing in these
possibilities, just imagine what it could do for a town like Galesburg. Ten or twenty years
down the road, that old Maytag plant could re-open its doors as an Ethanol refinery that
turned corn into fuel. Down the street, a biotechnology research lab could open up on the
cusp of discovering a cure for cancer. And across the way, a new auto company could be busy
churning out electric cars. The new jobs created would be filled by American workers trained
with new skills and a world-class education.
All of that is possible but none of it will come easy. Every one of us is going to have to work
more, read more, train more, think more. We will have to slough off some bad habits -- like
driving gas guzzlers that weaken our economy and feed our enemies abroad. Our children will
have to turn off the TV set once in a while and put away the video games and start hitting the
books. We’ll have to reform institutions, like our public schools, that were designed for an
earlier time. Republicans will have to recognize our collective responsibilities, even as
Democrats recognize that we have to do more than just defend old programs.
It won’t be easy, but it can be done. It can be our future. We have the talent and the
resources and brainpower. But now we need the political will. We need a national
commitment.
And we need each of you.
Now, no one can force you to meet these challenges. If you want, it will be pretty easy for you
to leave here today and not give another thought to towns like Galesburg and the challenges
they face. There is no community service requirement in the real world; no one is forcing you
to care. 

You can take your diploma, walk off this stage, and go chasing after the big house, and the
nice suits, and all the other things that our money culture says that you should want, that you
should aspire to, that you can buy.
But I hope you don’t walk away from the challenge. Focusing your life solely on making a buck
shows a certain poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. You need to take up the
challenges that we face as a nation and make them your own. Not because you have a debt to
those who helped you get here, although you do have that debt. Not because you have an
obligation to those who are less fortunate than you, although I do think you do have that
obligation. It’s primarily because you have an obligation to yourself. Because individual
salvation has always depended on collective salvation. Because it’s only when you hitch your
wagon to something larger than yourself that you realize your true potential.
And I know that all of you are wondering how you’ll do this, the challenges seem so big. They
seem so difficult for one person to make a difference.
But we know it can be done. Because where you’re sitting, in this very place, in this town, it’s
happened before.
Nearly two centuries ago, before civil rights, before voting rights, before Abraham Lincoln,
before the Civil War, before all of that, America was stained by the sin of slavery. In the
sweltering heat of southern plantations, men and women who looked like me could not escape
the life of pain and servitude in which they were sold. And yet, year after year, as this moral
cancer ate away at the American ideals of liberty and equality, the nation was silent.
But its people didn’t stay silent for long.
One by one, abolitionists emerged to tell their fellow Americans that this would not be our
place in history -- that this was not the America that had captured the imagination of the
world.
This resistance that they met was fierce, and some paid with their lives. But they would not be
deterred, and they soon spread out across the country to fight for their cause. One man from
New York went west, all the way to the prairies of Illinois to start a colony.
And here in Galesburg, freedom found a home.
Here in Galesburg, the main depot for the Underground Railroad in Illinois, escaped slaves
could roam freely on the streets and take shelter in people’s homes. And when their masters
or the police would come for them, the people of this town would help them escape north,
some literally carrying them in their arms to freedom.

Think about the risks that involved. If they were caught abetting a fugitive, you could’ve been
jailed or lynched. It would have been simple for these townspeople to turn the other way; to
go live their lives in a private peace.
And yet, they didn’t do that. Why?
Because they knew that we were all Americans; that we were all brothers and sisters; the
same reason that a century later, young men and women your age would take Freedom Rides
down south, to work for the Civil Rights movement. The same reason that black women would
walk instead of ride a bus after a long day of doing somebody else’s laundry and cleaning
somebody else’s kitchen. Because they were marching for freedom.
Today, on this day of possibility, we stand in the shadow of a lanky, raw-boned man with little
formal education who once took the stage at Old Main and told the nation that if anyone did
not believe the American principles of freedom and equality, that those principles were
timeless and all-inclusive, they should go rip that page out of the Declaration of
Independence.
My hope for all of you is that as you leave here today, you decide to keep these principles
alive in your own life and in the life of this country. You will be tested. You won’t always
succeed. But know that you have it within your power to try. That generations who have come
before you faced these same fears and uncertainties in their own time. And that through our
collective labor, and through God’s providence, and our willingness to shoulder each other’s
burdens, America will continue on its precious journey towards that distant horizon, and a
better day.
Thank you so much class of 2005, and congratulations on your graduation. Thank you.
You know, four years ago, following the most devastating attack in our history, this Body
passed the USA PATRIOT Act in order to give our Nation's law enforcement the tools they
needed to track down terrorists who plot and lurk within our own borders and all over the
world; terrorists who, right now, are looking to exploit weaknesses in our laws and our
security to carry out attacks that may be even deadlier than those that took place on
September 11th.
We all agree that we need legislation to make it harder for suspected terrorists to go
undetected in this country. And we all agree that we needed to make it harder for them to
organize and strategize and get flight licenses and sneak across our borders. Americans
everywhere wanted to do that.
But soon after the PATRIOT Act passed, a few years before I even arrived here in the Senate,
I began hearing concerns from people of every background and political leaning that this law,
the very purpose of which was to protect us, was also threatening to violate some of the
rights and freedoms that we hold most dear; that it didn't just provide law enforcement the
powers it needed to keep us safe but powers that it didn't need to invade our privacy without
cause or suspicion.


Now, in Washington, this issue has tended to degenerate into the typical either/or debate:
Either we protect our people from terror or we protect our most cherished principles. I would
suggest, Mr. President, that this is a false choice. It asks too little of us and it assumes too
little about America.
That's why, as it's come to time to reauthorize the USA PATRIOT Act, we've been working in a
bipartisan way to do both -- to show American people that we can track down terrorists
without trampling on our civil liberties, to show the American people that the Federal
Government will only issue warrants and execute searches because it needs to do so, not
because it can do so.
What we have been trying to achieve under the leadership of a bipartisan group of Senators is
some accountability in this process to get answers and see evidence where there is suspicion.
Several weeks ago, these efforts bore fruit. The Judiciary Committee and the U.S. -- U.S.
Senate managed to pass a piece of bipartisan legislation that, while I can't say is perfect, was
able to address some of the most serious problems in the existing law.
Unfortunately, that strong bipartisan legislation has been tossed aside in conference. Instead,
we've been forced to consider a piece of rushed legislation that fails to address the concerns
of Members of both parties as well as the American people.
This is legislation that puts our own Justice Department above the law. When national security
letters are issued, they allow Federal agents to conduct any search on any American, no
matter how extensive, how wide ranging, without ever going before a judge to prove that the
search is necessary. All that is needed is a signoff from a local FBI agent. That's it.
Once a business or a person receives notification that they will be searched, they are
prohibited from telling anyone about it and they're even prohibited from challenging this
automatic gag order in court. Even though judges have already found that similar restrictions
violate the first amendment, this conference report disregards the case law and the right to
challenge the gag order.
If you do decide to consult an attorney for legal advice, hold on. You will have to tell the FBI
that you've done so. Think about that: You want to talk to a lawyer about whether or not your
actions are going to be causing you to get into trouble, you've got to tell the FBI that you're
consulting a lawyer. This is unheard of. There is no such requirement in any other area of the
law. I see no reason why it's justified here.
And if someone wants to know why their own Government has decided to go on a fishing
expedition through every personal record or private document, through the library books that
you read, the phone calls that you've made, the e-mails that you've sent, this legislation gives
people no rights to appeal the need for such a search in a court of law. 

No judge will hear your plea; no jury will hear your case. This is just plain wrong. And there
are Republican Senators as well as Democratic Senators that recognize that it's plain wrong.
Giving law enforcement the tools they need to investigate suspicious activities is one thing
and it's the right thing; but doing it without any real oversight seriously jeopardizes the rights
of all Americans and the ideals America stands for.
Now, supporters of this conference report have argued we should just hold our noses and
support this legislation because it's not going to get any better. That is not a good argument.
We can do better. We've got time to do better. It doesn't convince me that I should support
this report. I believe we owe it to the Nation, we owe it to those who fought for our civil
liberties, we owe it to the future and our children to make sure that we craft the kind of
legislation that would make us proud, not just legislation that we would settle for because
we're in a rush. We don't have to settle for a PATRIOT Act that sacrifices our liberties or our
safety. We can have one that secures both.
Now, there have been proposals on both sides of the aisle and in both Houses of Congress to
extend the PATRIOT Act for three months so that we can reach an agreement on this bill that
is well thought through. I support these efforts and will oppose cloture on what I consider to
be this unacceptable conference report.
And when I think about Coretta Scott King, I think about the little girl who walked five miles 
to school on those rural Alabama roads and felt the heat of racism each day she passed the 
door of the Whites­only school, so much closer to home. It didn't matter, because she studied 
and succeeded and excelled beyond most of her classmates, Black and White. She earned a 
college degree, and an acceptance to a prestigious graduate school up North. 
And one day she met a young preacher from Atlanta, and she fell in love with him. And he 
told her his dreams ­­ and she believed in those dreams. And she decided that she would help 
to make them real ­­ not just as a wife or as a friend, but as a partner in freedom's cause. 
Over the next years, Coretta Scott King did that in so many ways we can't even imagine. She 
raised a family, she marched through the streets, she inspired through song, she led through
speech ­­ even dodged the countless attempts on her family's life. And when one of those 
attempts finally took her love from this world, she made the selfless decision to carry on.


With no time to even cry or mourn, to wallow in anger or vengeance, Coretta Scott King took 
to the streets just four days after the assassination and led 50,000 through the streets of 
Memphis in a march for the kind of justice that her husband had given his life for. She spent
the rest of here marching for that same justice ­­ leading the King Center for Nonviolent
Social Change in Atlanta, and spreading her family's message of hope to every corner of this 
world.
You know, I had the great honor of knowing Mrs. King, and the occasion to visit with her in
Atlanta last year. She was an extraordinarily gracious woman. We sat and chatted in her living 
room. She showed me an album of photographs of her and Dr. King and the children. And 
then she told me what her husband had said to her once, at a time when she was feeling 
burdened, understandably, by all the stress and strain that had been placed on the family as a 
consequence of his role in the Civil Rights Movement. 
She said her husband suggested that:
When you are willing to make sacrifices for a great cause, you will never be alone 
because you will have divine companionship and the support of good people.
That was her husband's advice to her ­­ that when you are willing to make sacrifices for a 
great cause, you will never be alone.
Coretta Scott King died in her sleep last night. She certainly was not alone. She was joined by 
the companionship and support of a loving family and a grateful Nation ­­ inspired by her 
cause, dedicated to her work, and mournful of her passing.
My thoughts, condolences today are with her children. 
And I ask that she and her husband now rest together in eternal peace. I want to thank the many people inside and outside Congress who have worked so hard over
the past year to get us here. We owe a great debt of gratitude to the leadership on both sides
of the aisle. And we owe special thanks to Chairmen Sensenbrenner and Specter, Ranking
Members Conyers and Leahy, and Representative Mel Watt. Without their work and
dedication, and the support of voting rights advocates across the country, I doubt that this bill
would have come before us so soon.
I want to thank both Chambers and both sides of the aisle, as well, for getting this done with
the same broad support that drove the original act 40 years ago. At a time when Americans
are frustrated with the partisan bickering that too often stalls our work, the refreshing display
of bipartisanship we're seeing today reflects our collective belief in the success of the act and
reminds us of how effective we can be when we work together. Nobody can deny that we've come a long way since 1965. Look at the registration numbers.
Only two years after the passage of the original Act, registration numbers for minority voters
in some States doubled. Soon after, not a single State covered by the Voting Rights Act had
registered less than half of its minority voting age population.
Look at the influence of African-American elected officials at every single level of government.
There are African-American Members of Congress. Since 2001, our Nation's top diplomat1
 has
been African American. In fact, most of America's elected African-American officials come
from States covered by section 5 of the Voting Rights Act -- States like Mississippi, and
Alabama, Louisiana, and Georgia.
But to me, the most striking evidence of our progress can be found right across this building
in my dear friend Congressman John Lewis, who was on the front lines of the Civil Rights
Movement, risking life and limb for freedom. And on March 7th, 1965, he led 600 peaceful
protesters, demanding the right to vote, across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama.
Now, I've often thought about the people on the Edmund Pettus Bridge that day, not only
John Lewis and Hosea Williams, who led the march, but the hundreds of everyday Americans
who left their homes and their churches to join it -- Blacks and Whites, teenagers, children,
teachers, bankers, shopkeepers -- what Dr. King called a beloved community of God's children
ready to stand for freedom.
And I wonder sometimes -- Where did they find that kind of courage? You know, when you're
facing row after row of State troopers on horseback, armed with billy clubs and tear gas --
when they're coming toward you spewing hatred and violence, how do you simply stop, kneel
down, and pray to the Lord for salvation?
But the most amazing thing of all is that after that day, after John Lewis was beaten within an
inch of his life, after people's heads were gashed open and their eyes were burned, and they
watched their children's innocence literally beaten out of them -- after all that, they went back
and marched again. They marched again. They crossed the bridge. They awakened a nation's
conscience. And not five months later the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was signed into law. It
was reauthorized in 1970, in 1975, and 1982.
Now, in 2006 John Lewis, the physical scars of those marches still visible, is an original
cosponsor of the fourth reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. And he was joined last week
by 389 of his House colleagues in voting for its passage.
There were some in the House, and there may be some in the Senate, who argue that the Act
is no longer needed, that the protections of section 5's "preclearance'' requirement" -- a
requirement that ensures certain States are upholding the right to vote -- are targeting the
wrong States. Unfortunately, the evidence refutes that notion. Of the 1100 objections issued
by the Department of Justice since 1965, 56 [percent] occurred since the last reauthorization
in 1982. Over half have occurred since 1982. So despite the progress these States have made
in upholding the right to vote, it's clear that problems still exist.

Now, there are others who would argue that we shouldn't renew section 203's protection of
language minorities. These arguments have been tied to debates over immigration and they
tend to muddle a noncontroversial issue -- protecting the right to vote -- with one of today's
most contentious debates. But let's remember, you can't request language assistance if you're
not a voter. And you can't be a voter if you are not a citizen. And while voters, as citizens,
must be proficient in English, many are simply more confident that they can cast ballots
printed in their native languages without making errors. It's not an unreasonable assumption.
A representative of the Southwestern Voter Registration Project is quoted as saying, (quote):
Citizens who prefer Spanish registration cards do so because they feel more connected
to the process. They also feel they trust the process more when they [fully] understand
it.2
These sentiments, connection to and trust in our democratic process, are exactly what we
want from our voting rights legislation.
Our challenges, of course, don't end at reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act. We have to
prevent the problems we've seen in recent elections from happening again. We've seen
political operatives purge voters from registration rolls for no legitimate reason, prevent
eligible ex-felons from casting ballots, distribute polling equipment unevenly, and deceive
voters about the time, location, and rules of elections. And unfortunately, these efforts have
been directed primarily at minority voters -- the disabled, low-income individuals, and other
historically disenfranchised groups.
The Help America Vote Act, or HAVA, was a big step in the right direction. But we've got to do
more. We need to fully fund HAVA if we're going to move forward in the next stage of securing
the right to vote for every citizen. We need to enforce critical requirements like statewide
registration databases. We need to make sure polling equipment is distributed equitably and
equipment actually works. And we need to work on getting more people to the polls on
election day.
We need to make sure that minority voters are not the subject of some deplorable
intimidation tactics when they do go to the polls.
You know, in 2004 Native American voters in South Dakota were confronted by men posing as
law enforcement. These hired intimidators joked about jail time for ballot missteps and
followed voters to their cars to record their license plates.
["]In Lake County, Ohio, some voters received a memo on bogus Board of Election[s]
letterhead, informing voters who registered through Democratic and NAACP drives that they
could not vote.["]3

In Wisconsin, a flier purporting to be from the "Milwaukee Black Voters League" was circulated
in predominantly African-American neighborhoods with the following message: "If you've
already voted in any election this year, you can't vote in the presidential election. "If you
violate any of these laws, you can get ten years in prison and your children will get taken
away from you."4
Now, think about that. We've got a lot more work to do. This occasion is a cause for
celebration. But it's also an opportunity to renew our commitment to voting rights. As
Congressman Lewis said last week: It's clear that we've come a great distance, but we still
have a great distance to go.5,6 Now, the memory of Selma still lives on in the spirit of the
Voting Rights Act. Since that day, the Voting Rights Act has been a critical tool in ensuring
that all Americans not only have the right to vote but have the right to have their vote
counted.
And those of us concerned about protecting those rights can't afford to sit on our laurels upon
reauthorization of this bill. We need to take advantage of this rare, united front and continue
to fight to ensure unimpeded access to the polls of all Americans. In other words, we need to
take the spirit that existed on that bridge, and we have to spread it across this country.
You know, two weeks after the first march was turned back, Dr. King spoke, and he told a
gathering of organizers and activists and community members -- he said that they should not
despair because "the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."
The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice. That's because of the work
that each of us do that it bends toward justice. It's because of people like John Lewis and
Fannie Lou Hamer and Coretta Scott King and Rosa Parks -- all the giants upon whose
shoulders we stand -- that we are beneficiaries of that arc bending toward justice.
That's why I stand here today. I would not be in the United States Senate had it not been for
the efforts and courage of so many parents and grandparents and ordinary people who were
willing to reach up and bend that arc in the direction of justice.
I hope we continue to see that spirit live on not just during this debate but throughout all our
work here in the Senate.

Mr. President, I rise, first, to offer strong words of support for the statement that was just
offered by the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. I, as well, rise today to speak in
support of the Iraq resolution that the Senate will consider tomorrow.
Mr. President, the news from Iraq is very bad. Last week, a suicide bomber stood outside a
bookstore and killed 20 people. Other attacks killed 118 Shia pilgrims. On Sunday, a car bomb
went off in central Baghdad, and more than 30 people died. And the road from the airport into
Baghdad is littered with smoldering debris, craters from improvised explosive devices, and the
memories of our sons and daughters.
Mr. President, the civil war in Iraq rages on. The insurgents have started to change their
tactics. They hide in buildings and along the streets and wait for our helicopters. They've shot
down at least eight U.S. helicopters in the last month. More of our soldiers are dying and
coming home with their bodies broken and their nerves shattered at a VA system completely
unprepared for what they need to rebuild their lives.

Mr. President, it is not enough for the President to tell us that victory in this war is simply a
matter of American resolve. The American people have been extraordinarily resolved. They've
seen their sons and daughters killed or wounded in the streets of Fallujah. They've spent
hundreds of billions of dollars on this effort -- money that they know could have been devoted
to strengthening our homeland security and our competitive standing as a Nation. The failure
has not been a failure of resolve. That's not what's led us into chaos. It's been a failure of
strategy; and it's time that the strategy change. There is no military solution, Mr. President, to
the civil war that rages on in Iraq; and it's time for us to redeploy so that a political solution
becomes possible.
The news from Iraq is very bad, and it's been that way for at least four years. We all wish the
-- that the land the President and the Vice President speak of exists. We wish that there was
an Iraq where the insurgency was in the last throes, where the people work with security,
where children play outside, where a vibrant new democracy lights up the nighttime sky. We
wish for those things, but there's no alternative reality to what we see and read about in the
news, to what we've experienced these long four years.
I repeat, Mr. President, there is no military solution to this war. At this point, no amount of
soldiers can solve the grievances at the heart of someone else's civil war. The Iraqi people --
Shia, Sunni, and Kurd -- must come to the table and reach a political settlement themselves.
If they want peace, they must do the hard work necessary to achieve it.
Our failed strategy in Iraq has strengthened Iran's strategic position, reduced U.S. credibility
and influence around the world, placed Israel and other nations friendly to the United States
in the region in greater peril. These are not the signs of a well-laid plan. It's time for a
profound change.
This is what we're trying to do here today. We're saying it is time to start making plans to
redeploy our troops so that they can focus on the wider struggle against terrorism, win the
war in Afghanistan, strengthen our position in the Middle East, and pressure the Iraqis to
reach a political settlement. Even if this effort falls short, we will continue to try to accomplish
what the American people asked for last November.
I'm glad to see, though, that this new effort is gaining consensus. And I want to commend
Senator Reid for his efforts. He took the time to listen -- so many of us from both Chambers
of Congress could help develop this plan.
The decision in particular to begin a phased redeployment, with the goal of redeploying all our
combat forces by March 31st, 2008, is the right step. It's a measure the Iraq Study Group
spoke of, an idea I borrowed from them, an idea that, in a bill I introduced, now has more
than 60 cosponsors from House and Senate and from both sides of the aisle. They've
supported this plan since I announced a similar plan in January.

The decision allows some U.S. forces to remain in Iraq with a clear mission to protect U.S. and
coalition personnel, conduct counterterrorism operations, and to train and equip Iraqi forces;
and that is a smart decision. President al-Maliki spoke at a conference and warned that the
violence in Iraq could spread throughout the region if it goes unchecked. By maintaining a
strong presence in Iraq and the Middle East, as both my bill and the leadership bill does, we
can ensure that the chaos does not spread.
I should also add that the decision to begin this phased redeployment within 120 days is a
practical one. Our military options have been exhausted. It's time to seek a political solution
to this war, and with this decision we send a clear signal to the parties involved that they need
to arrive at an accommodation.
Mr. President, while I strongly believe that this war never should have been authorized, I
believe we must be as careful in ending the war as we were careless getting in. While I prefer
my approach, as reflected in my bill, I believe that this new resolution does begin to point
U.S. policy in Iraq and the region in the right direction. An end to the war, and achieving a
political solution to Iraq's civil war, will not happen unless we demand it.
Peace with stability doesn't just happen because we wish for it. It comes when we never give
in and never give up and never tire of working towards a life on Earth worthy of our human
dignity. The decisions that have been made have led us to this crossroads -- a moment of
great peril, Mr. President.
We have a choice. We can continue down the road that's weakened our credibility and
damaged our strategic interests in the region or we can turn toward the future. The road
won't be smooth, and I have to say, Mr. President, that there will be risks with any approach.
But this approach is our last best hope to end this war so we can begin to bring our troops
home and begin the hard work of securing our country and our world from the threats that we
face.
The President has said he will continue down the road towards more troops and more of the
same failed policies. The President sought and won authorization from Congress to wage this
war from the start. But he is now dismissing and ignoring the will of the American people, that
is tired of years of watching the human and financial tolls mount.
Mr. President, the news from Iraq is very bad, but it can change if we in this Chamber say
"enough." Let this day be the day that begins the painful and difficult work of moving from
this crossroad. Let this be the day that we begin pulling towards the future with a responsible
conclusion to this painful chapter in our Nation's history. Mr. President, let this be the day
when we finally send a message that is so clear and so emphatic that it cannot be ignored.
Mr. President, on Thursdays Senator Durbin and I hold a constituent coffee so we can hear 
from the folks back home. A young man came a few months ago who was about 25, 26 years 
old. He had been back from Iraq for a year. The first six months of that year had been spent
in a coma. An explosion had shattered his face, blinded him in both eyes, has left him without
the use of one arm. 
He talked to us about how he was going through rehab. He introduced us to his family. He has 
a wife and two young daughters like I do, and his wife talked for a bit about the adjustments 
they were making at home since dad got hurt. And I found myself looking at not just him, but
his wife, who loves him so much. And I thought about how their lives were forever changed
because of the decision that was carried out four years ago. 
The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. I first made this point in the fall of 2002, at the end of 
the speech that I gave opposing the invasion of Iraq. I said then that I certainly do not oppose 
all wars. Rather, I oppose dumb wars, rash wars, wars that are based on passion as opposed 
to wars based on a sober assessment of our national security interests, because there's no
decision more profound than the one we make to send our brave men and women into harm’s 
way.

I’ve thought about these words from time to time since that speech, but never so much as the 
day I saw that young man and his wife, and understood the degree to which their lives had
been turn upside down. 
The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. Too many have returned from Iraq with that soldier’s 
story ­­ with broken bodies and shattered nerves and wounds that even the best care may not
heal. Too many of our best have come home shrouded in the flag they loved. Too many moms 
and dads and husbands and wives have answered that knock on the door that’s hardest for 
any loved one to hear. And the rest of us have seen too many promises of swift victories and 
dying insurgencies and budding democracy giving way to the reality of a brutal civil war that 
goes on and on and on to this day.
The sacrifices of war, Mr. President, are immeasurable. It was not impossible to see back then
that we might arrive at the place we’re at today. I said then that a war based not on reason
but on passion, not on principle but on politics would lead to a U.S. occupation of 
undetermined length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences. I believed that 
an invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale or strong international support would only 
strengthen the recruitment arm of al­Qaeda and erode the good standing and moral authority 
that took our country generations to build. There were other experts and leaders and 
everyday Americans who believed this too. 
I wish I had been wrong. I wish we weren’t here talking about this at the beginning of the 
war’s fifth year ­­ because the consequences of this war have been profound. And the 
sacrifices have been immeasurable.
Mr. President, those who would have us continue this war in perpetuity like to say that this is 
a matter of resolve on behalf of the American people. But the American people have been
extraordinarily resolved. They've seen their sons and daughters killed and wounded on the 
streets of Fallujah. They've spent hundreds of billions of dollars on this effort ­­ money that
could have been devoted to strengthening our homeland and our competitive standing as a 
nation. It is not a failure of resolve that has led us into this chaos but a failed strategy ­­ a strategy 
that has only strengthened Iran’s strategic position, increased threats posed by terrorist
organizations, reduced U.S. credibility and influence around the world, and placed Israel and 
other nations [friendly] to the United States in the region in greater peril. Iraq has not been a 
failure of resolve; it has been a failure of strategy, and that strategy must change. It is time 
to bring a responsible end to U.S. involvement in this conflict is now. 
It's become apparent, Mr. President, that there's no military solution to this war. No amount
of U.S. soldiers ­­ not 10,000 more, not 20,000 more, not almost 30,000 more than we know
we are sending ­­ can solve the grievances that lay at the heart of someone else’s civil war Our troops cannot serve as their diplomats, and we can no longer referee their civil war. We 
must begin a phased withdrawal of our forces starting May 1st, with the goal of removing all
combat forces by March 30th, 2008.  We also must make sure that we’re not as careless getting out of this war as we were getting 
in, and that’s why this withdrawal should be gradual, and maintain some U.S. troops in the 
region to prevent a wider war in the region, while they can also work on going after Al Qaeda
and other terrorists. But this phased withdrawal, Mr. President, must begin soon. Letting the 
Iraqis know that we will not be there forever is our last, best hope to pressure the Iraqis to
take ownership of their country and bring an end to their conflict. It is time for our troops to
start coming home. 
History will not judge, Mr. President, the architects of this war kindly. But the books have yet
to be written on our effort to right the wrongs we see in Iraq. The story has yet to be told 
about how we turned from this moment, found our way out of the desert, and took to heart
the lessons of war that too many refused to heed back then; for it is of little use or comfort to
recall past advice and warnings if we do not allow them to guide us in the challenges that lie 
ahead. Mr. President, threats loom large in an age where terrorist networks thrive, and there 
will certainly be times when we have to call on our brave servicemen and women to risk their 
lives again. But before we make that most profound of all decisions, before we send our best off to battle,
we must remember what led us to this day and learn from the principles that follow.  We must remember that ideology is not a foreign policy. We must not embark on a war based 
on untested theories, political agendas, or wishful thinking that has little basis in fact or 
reality. We must focus our efforts on the threats we know exist, and we must evaluate those 
threats with sound intelligence that is never manipulated for political reasons. 
Mr. President, we must remember that the cost of going it alone is immense. It is a choice we 
sometimes have to make, but one that must be made rarely and always reluctantly. That's 
because America’s standing in the world is a precious resource not easily rebuilt. We value the 
cooperation and goodwill of other nations not because it makes us feel good, but because it
makes all the world safer; because the only way to battle 21st century threats that race 
across the borders ­­ threats like terror and disease and nuclear proliferation ­­ is to enlist the 
resources and support of all nations. To win our wider struggle, we must let people across this 
planet know that there is another, more hopeful alternative to the hateful ideologies the 
terrorists espouse and a renewed America will reflect and champion that vision.  Mr. President, we must remember that planning for peace is just as critical as planning for 
war. Iraq was not just a failure of conception but a failure of execution, and so when a conflict
does arise that requires our involvement, we must understand that country’s history, its 
politics, its ethnic and religious divisions before our troops ever set foot on its soil.We must understand that setting up ballot boxes does not a democracy make ­­ that real
freedom and real stability come from doing the hard work of helping to build a strong police 
force, and a legitimate government, and ensuring that people have food, and water, and 
electricity, and basic services. And we must be honest about how much of that we can do
ourselves and how much must come from the people themselves. 
Finally, Mr. President, we must remember that when we send our servicemen and women to
war, we make sure we give them the training they need, and the equipment that will keep 
them safe, and a mission that they can accomplish. We must respect our commanders’ advice 
not just when its politically convenient, but even when it’s not what we want to hear. And 
when our troops come home, it is our most solemn responsibility to make sure they come 
home to the services, and the benefits, and the care they deserve.
As we stand at the beginning of the fifth year of this war, Mr. President, let us remember that
young man from Illinois, and his wife, and his daughters, and the thousands upon thousands 
of families who are living the very real consequences and immeasurable sacrifices that have 
come from our decision to invade Iraq. We are so blessed in this country to have so many 
men and women like this ­­ Americans willing to put on that uniform, and say the hard
goodbyes, and risk their lives in a far off land because they know that such consequences and 
sacrifices are sometimes necessary to defend our country and achieve a lasting peace.
That is why we have no greater responsibility than to ensure the decision to place them in
harm’s way is the right one. And that is why we must learn the lessons of Iraq. It is what we 
owe our soldiers. It is what we owe their families. And it is what we owe our country ­­ now,  and all the days and months to come. They said this country was too divided, too disillusioned to ever come together around a
common purpose.
But on this January night, at this defining moment in history, you have done what the cynics
said we couldn't do. You have done what the state of New Hampshire can do in five days. You
have done what America can do in this new year, 2008.
In lines that stretched around schools and churches, in small towns and in big cities, you
came together as Democrats, Republicans, and independents, to stand up and say that we are
one nation. We are one people. And our time for change has come.
You said the time has come to move beyond the bitterness and pettiness and anger that's
consumed Washington; to end the political strategy that's been all about division, and instead
make it about addition; to build a coalition for change that stretches through red states and
blue states; because that's how we'll win in November, and that's how we'll finally meet the
challenges that we face as a nation. We are choosing hope over fear. We're choosing unity over division, and sending a powerful
message that change is coming to America.
You said the time has come to tell the lobbyists who think their money and their influence
speak louder than our voices that they don't own this government -- we do. And we are here
to take it back.
The time has come for a President who will be honest about the choices and the challenges we
face, who will listen to you and learn from you, even when we disagree, who won't just tell
you what you want to hear, but what you need to know. And in New Hampshire, if you give
me the same chance that Iowa did tonight, I will be that President for America.
I'll be a President who finally makes health care affordable and available to every single
American, the same way I expanded health care in Illinois, by bringing Democrats and
Republicans together to get the job done.
I'll be a President who ends the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and put
a middle-class tax cut into the pockets of working Americans who deserve it.
I'll be a President who harnesses the ingenuity of farmers and scientists and entrepreneurs to
free this nation from the tyranny of oil once and for all.
And I'll be a President who ends this war in Iraq and finally brings our troops home, who
restores our moral standing, who understands that 9/11 is not a way to scare up votes but a
challenge that should unite America and the world against the common threats of the 21st
century -- common threats of terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate change and poverty,
genocide and disease.
Tonight, we are one step closer to that vision of America because of what you did here in
Iowa. And so I'd especially like to thank the organizers and the precinct captains, the
volunteers and the staff who made this all possible.
And while I'm at it on thank you's, I think it makes sense for me to thank the love of my life,
the rock of the Obama family, the closer on the campaign trail: Give it up for Michelle Obama.
I know you didn't do this for me. You did this because you believed so deeply in the most
American of ideas -- that in the face of impossible odds, people who love this country can
change it.
I know this. I know this because while I may be standing here tonight, I'll never forget that
my journey began on the streets of Chicago doing what so many of you have done for this
campaign and all the campaigns here in Iowa: organizing and working and fighting to make
people's lives just a little bit better.
I know how hard it is. It comes with little sleep, little pay, and a lot of sacrifice. There are
days of disappointment. But sometimes, just sometimes, there are nights like this: a night
that, years from now, when we've made the changes we believe in, when more families can
afford to see a doctor, when our children -- when Malia and Sasha and your children inherit a
planet that's a little cleaner and safer, when the world sees America differently, and America
sees itself as a nation less divided and more united, you'll be able to look back with pride and
say that this was the moment when it all began.
This was the moment when the improbable beat what Washington always said was inevitable.
This was the moment when we tore down barriers that have divided us for too long; when we
rallied people of all parties and ages to a common cause; when we finally gave Americans who
had never participated in politics a reason to stand up and to do so.
This was the moment when we finally beat back the politics of fear and doubt and cynicism,
the politics where we tear each other down instead of lifting this country up. This was the
moment. Years from now, you'll look back and you'll say that this was the moment, this was the place
where America remembered what it means to hope. For many months, we've been teased,
even derided for talking about hope. But we always knew that hope is not blind optimism. It's
not ignoring the enormity of the tasks ahead or the roadblocks that stand in our path.
It's not sitting on the sidelines or shirking from a fight. Hope is that thing inside us that
insists, despite all the evidence to the contrary, that something better awaits us if we have
the courage to reach for it and to work for it and to fight for it.
Hope is what I saw in the eyes of the young woman in Cedar Rapids who works the night shift
after a full day of college and still can't afford health care for a sister who's ill -- a young
woman who still believes that this country will give her the chance to live out her dreams.
Hope is what I heard in the voice of the New Hampshire woman who told me that she hasn't
been able to breathe since her nephew left for Iraq -- who still goes to bed each night praying
for his safe return. Hope is what led a band of colonists to rise up against an empire, what led the greatest of
generations to free a continent and heal a nation, what led young women and young men to
sit at lunch counters and brave fire hoses and march through Selma and Montgomery for
freedom's cause. Hope is what led me here today. With a father from Kenya, a mother from Kansas, and a
story that could only happen in the United States of America.
Hope is the bedrock of this nation -- the belief that our destiny will not be written for us, but
by us, by all those men and women who are not content to settle for the world as it is, who
have the courage to remake the world as it should be.
That is what we started here in Iowa and that is the message we can now carry to New
Hampshire and beyond; the same message we had when we were up and when we were
down; the one that can save this country, brick by brick, block by block, calloused hand by
calloused hand; that together, ordinary people can do extraordinary things.
Because we are not a collection of red states and blue states. We are the United States of
America. And in this moment, in this election, we are ready to believe again. 
Let me begin by thanking Harris Wofford for his contributions to this country. In so many
different ways, he exemplifies what we mean by the word "citizen." And so we are very
grateful to him for all the work he has done; and I'm thankful for the gracious and thoughtful
introduction.
"We the people, in order to form a more perfect union." Two hundred and twenty one years
ago, in a hall that still stands across the street, a group of men gathered and, with these
simple words, launched America's improbable experiment in democracy. Farmers and
scholars, statesmen and patriots who had traveled across the ocean to escape tyranny and
persecution finally made real their Declaration of Independence at a Philadelphia convention
that lasted through the spring of 1787.
The document they produced was eventually signed, but ultimately unfinished. It was stained
by this nation's original sin of slavery, a question that divided the colonies and brought the
convention to a stalemate until the founders chose to allow the slave trade to continue for at
least 20 more years, and to leave any final resolution to future generations. Of course, the
answer to the slavery question was already embedded within our Constitution -- a
Constitution that had at is very core the ideal of equal citizenship under the law; a
Constitution that promised its people liberty and justice, and a union that could be and should
be perfected over time.
And yet words on a parchment would not be enough to deliver slaves from bondage, or
provide men and women of every color and creed their full rights and obligations as citizens of
the United States. What would be needed were Americans in successive generations who were
willing to do their part -- through protests and struggles, on the streets and in the courts,
through a civil war and civil disobedience, and always at great risk -- to narrow that gap
between the promise of our ideals and the reality of their time.
This was one of the tasks we set forth at the beginning of this presidential campaign: to
continue the long march of those who came before us, a march for a more just, more equal,
more free, more caring, and more prosperous America. I chose to run for President at this
moment in history because I believe deeply that we cannot solve the challenges of our time
unless we solve them together, unless we perfect our union by understanding that we may
have different stories, but we hold common hopes; that we may not look the same and may
not have come from the same place, but we all want to move in the same direction: towards a
better future for our children and our grandchildren. And this belief comes from my unyielding
faith in the decency and generosity of the American people. But it also comes from my own
story.
I'm the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas. I was raised with the
help of a white grandfather who survived a Depression to serve in Patton's army during World
War II, and a white grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line at Fort Leavenworth
while he was overseas. I've gone to some of the best schools in America and I've lived in one
of the world's poorest nations. I am married to a black American who carries within her the
blood of slaves and slave owners, an inheritance we pass on to our two precious daughters. I
have brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, uncles, and cousins of every race and every hue
scattered across three continents. And for as long as I live, I will never forget that in no other
country on earth is my story even possible. It's a story that hasn't made me the most
conventional of candidates. But it is a story that has seared into my genetic makeup the idea
that this nation is more than the sum of its parts -- that out of many, we are truly one.
Now throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the contrary, we saw
how hungry the American people were for this message of unity. Despite the temptation to
view my candidacy through a purely racial lens, we won commanding victories in states with
some of the whitest populations in the country. In South Carolina, where the Confederate flag
still flies, we built a powerful coalition of African Americans and white Americans. This is not to
say that race has not been an issue in this campaign. At various stages in the campaign, some
commentators have deemed me either "too black" or "not black enough." We saw racial
tensions bubble to the surface during the week before the South Carolina primary. The press
has scoured every single exit poll for the latest evidence of racial polarization, not just in
terms of white and black, but black and brown as well.
And yet, it's only been in the last couple of weeks that the discussion of race in this campaign
has taken a particularly divisive turn. On one end of the spectrum, we've heard the implication
that my candidacy is somehow an exercise in affirmative action; that it's based solely on the
desire of wild and wide-eyed liberals to purchase racial reconciliation on the cheap. On the
other end, we've heard my former pastor, Jeremiah Wright, use incendiary language to
express views that have the potential not only to widen the racial divide, but views that
denigrate both the greatness and the goodness of our nation and that rightly offend white and
black alike.
Now I've already condemned, in unequivocal terms, the statements of Reverend Wright that
have caused such controversy, and in some cases, pain. For some, nagging questions remain:
Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of
course. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in
the church? Yes. Did I strongly disagree with many of his political views? Absolutely, just as
I'm sure many of you have heard remarks from your pastors, priests, or rabbis with which you
strongly disagree.
But the remarks that have caused this recent firestorm weren't simply controversial. They
weren't simply a religious leader's efforts to speak out against perceived injustice. Instead,
they expressed a profoundly distorted view of this country, a view that sees white racism as
endemic and that elevates what is wrong with America above all that we know is right with
America; a view that sees the conflicts in the Middle East as rooted primarily in the actions of
stalwart allies like Israel instead of emanating from the perverse and hateful ideologies of
radical Islam.
As such, Reverend Wright's comments were not only wrong but divisive, divisive at a time
when we need unity; racially charged at a time when we need to come together to solve a set
of monumental problems: two wars, a terrorist threat, a falling economy, a chronic health
care crisis, and potentially devastating climate change -- problems that are neither black or
white or Latino or Asian, but rather problems that confront us all.
Given my background, my politics, and my professed values and ideals, there will no doubt be
those for whom my statements of condemnation are not enough. Why associate myself with
Reverend Wright in the first place, they may ask? Why not join another church? And I confess
that if all that I knew of Reverend Wright were the snippets of those sermons that have run in
an endless loop on the television sets and YouTube, if Trinity United Church of Christ
conformed to the caricatures being peddled by some commentators, there is no doubt that I
would react in much the same way.
But the truth is, that isn't all that I know of the man. The man I met more than twenty years
ago is a man who helped introduce me to my Christian faith, a man who spoke to me about
our obligations to love one another, to care for the sick and lift up the poor. 
He is a man who served his country as a United States Marine, and who has studied and
lectured at some of the finest universities and seminaries in the country, and who over 30
years has led a church that serves the community by doing God's work here on Earth -- by
housing the homeless, ministering to the needy, providing day care services and scholarships
and prison ministries, and reaching out to those suffering from HIV/AIDS.
In my first book, Dreams From My Father, I described the experience of my first service at
Trinity, and it goes as follows:
People began to shout, to rise from their seats and clap and cry out, a forceful wind
carrying the reverend's voice up to the rafters.
And in that single note -- hope -- I heard something else; at the foot of that cross,
inside the thousands of churches across the city, I imagined the stories of ordinary
black people merging with the stories of David and Goliath, Moses and Pharaoh, the
Christians in the lion's den, Ezekiel's field of dry bones.
Those stories of survival and freedom and hope became our stories, my story. The
blood that spilled was our blood; the tears our tears; until this black church, on this
bright day, seemed once more a vessel carrying the story of a people into future
generations and into a larger world. Our trials and triumphs became at once unique
and universal, black and more than black. In chronicling our journey, the stories and
songs gave us a meaning to reclaim memories that we didn't need to feel shame about
-- memories that all people might study and cherish and with which we could start to
rebuild.
That has been my experience at Trinity. Like other predominantly black churches across the
country, Trinity embodies the black community in its entirety -- the doctor and the welfare
mom, the model student and the former gang-banger. Like other black churches, Trinity's
services are full of raucous laughter and sometimes bawdy humor. They are full of dancing
and clapping and screaming and shouting that may seem jarring to the untrained ear. The
church contains in full the kindness and cruelty, the fierce intelligence and the shocking
ignorance, the struggles and successes, the love and, yes, the bitterness and biases that
make up the black experience in America.
And this helps explain, perhaps, my relationship with Reverend Wright. As imperfect as he
may be, he has been like family to me. He strengthens my faith, officiated my wedding, and
baptized my children. Not once in my conversations with him have I heard him talk about any
ethnic group in derogatory terms or treat whites with whom he interacted with anything but
courtesy and respect. He contains within him the contradictions -- the good and the bad -- of
the community that he has served diligently for so many years.
I can no more disown him than I can disown the black community. I can no more disown him
than I can disown my white grandmother, a woman who helped raise me, a woman who
sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in
this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed her by on the
street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made
me cringe.
These people are part of me. And they are part of America, this country that I love.
Now, some will see this as an attempt to justify or excuse comments that are simply
inexcusable. I can assure you it is not. And I suppose the politically safe thing to do would be
to move on from this episode and just hope that it fades into the woodwork. We can dismiss
Reverend Wright as a crank or a demagogue, just as some have dismissed Geraldine Ferraro
in the aftermath of her recent statements as harboring some deep -- deep-seated bias.
But race is an issue that I believe this nation cannot afford to ignore right now. We would be
making the same mistake that Reverend Wright made in his offending sermons about
America: to simplify and stereotype and amplify the negative to the point that it distorts
reality. The fact is that the comments that have been made and the issues that have surfaced
over the last few weeks reflect the complexities of race in this country that we've never really
worked through, a part of our union that we have not yet made perfect. And if we walk away
now, if we simply retreat into our respective corners, we will never be able to come together
and solve challenges like health care or education or the need to find good jobs for every
American.
Understanding -- Understanding this reality requires a reminder of how we arrived at this
point. As William Faulkner once wrote, "The past isn't dead and buried. In fact, it isn't even
past." We do not need to recite here the history of racial injustice in this country. But we do
need to remind ourselves that so many of the disparities that exist between the AfricanAmerican
community and the larger American community today can be traced directly to
inequalities passed on from an earlier generation that suffered under the brutal legacy of
slavery and Jim Crow. Segregated schools were, and are, inferior schools. We still haven't
fixed them, 50 years after Brown versus Board of Education. And the inferior education they
provided, then and now, helps explain the pervasive achievement gap between today's black
and white students.
Legalized discrimination, where blacks were prevented, often through violence, from owning
property, or loans were not granted to African-American business owners, or black
homeowners could not access FHA mortgages, or blacks were excluded from unions, or the
police force, or the fire department meant that black families could not amass any meaningful
wealth to bequeath to future generations. That history helps explain the wealth and income
gap between blacks and whites and the concentrated pockets of poverty that persist in so
many of today's urban and rural communities. 
A lack of economic opportunity among black men and the shame and frustration that came
from not being able to provide for one's family contributed to the erosion of black families, a
problem that welfare policies for many years may have worsened. And the lack of basic
services in so many urban black neighborhoods -- parks for kids to play in, police walking the
beat, regular garbage pick-up, building code enforcement -- all helped create a cycle of
violence, blight, and neglect that continues to haunt us.
This is the reality in which Reverend Wright and other African-Americans of his generation
grew up. They came of age in the late '50s and early '60s, a time when segregation was still
the law of the land and opportunity was systematically constricted. What's remarkable is not
how many failed in the face of discrimination, but how many men and women overcame the
odds, how many were able to make a way out of no way for those like me who would come
after them.
But for all those who scratched and clawed their way to get a piece of the American Dream,
there were many who didn't make it -- those who were ultimately defeated, in one way or
another, by discrimination. That legacy of defeat was passed on to future generations -- those
young men and increasingly young women who we see standing on street corners or
languishing in our prisons, without hope or prospects for the future. Even for those blacks who
did make it, questions of race, and racism, continue to define their world view in fundamental
ways. For the men and women of Reverend Wright's generation, the memories of humiliation
and doubt and fear have not gone away, nor has the anger and the bitterness of those years.
That anger may not get expressed in public, in front of white co-workers or white friends, but
it does find voice in the barbershop or the beauty shop or around the kitchen table. At times,
that anger is exploited by politicians to gin up votes along racial lines or to make up for a
politician's own failings. And occasionally it finds voice in the church on Sunday morning, in
the pulpit and in the pews. The fact that so many people are surprised to hear that anger in
some of Reverend Wright's sermons simply reminds us of that old truism that the most
segregated hour of American life occurs on Sunday morning.
That -- That anger is not always productive. Indeed, all too often it distracts attention from
solving real problems. It keeps us from squarely facing our own complicity within the AfricanAmerican
community in our own condition. It prevents the African-American community from
forging the alliances it needs to bring about real change. But the anger is real; it is powerful,
and to simply wish it away, to condemn it without understanding its roots only serves to
widen the chasm of misunderstanding that exists between the races.
In fact, a similar anger exists within segments of the white community. Most working and
middle-class white Americans don't feel that they've been particularly privileged by their race.
Their experience is the immigrant experience. As far as they're concerned, no one handed
them anything; they built it from scratch. They've worked hard all their lives, many times only
to see their jobs shipped overseas or their pensions dumped after a lifetime of labor. They are
anxious about their futures, and they feel their dreams slipping away. 
And in an era of stagnant wages and global competition, opportunity comes to be seen as a
zero sum game, in which your dreams come at my expense. So when they are told to bus
their children to a school across town, when they hear that an African American is getting an
advantage in landing a good job or a spot in a good college because of an injustice that they
themselves never committed, when they're told that their fears about crime in urban
neighborhoods are somehow prejudice, resentment builds over time.
Like the anger within the black community, these resentments aren't always expressed in
polite company. But they have helped shape the political landscape for at least a generation.
Anger over welfare and affirmative action helped forge the Reagan Coalition. Politicians
routinely exploited fears of crime for their own electoral ends. Talk show hosts and
conservative commentators built entire careers unmasking bogus claims of racism while
dismissing legitimate discussions of racial injustice and inequality as mere political correctness
or reverse racism. And just as black anger often proved counterproductive, so have these
white resentments distracted attention from the real culprits of the middle class squeeze: a
corporate culture rife with inside dealing, questionable accounting practices, and short-term
greed; a Washington dominated by lobbyists and special interests; economic policies that
favor the few over the many. And yet, to wish away the resentments of white Americans, to
label them as misguided or even racist without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate
concerns, this, too, widens the racial divide and blocks the path to understanding.
This is where we are right now.
It's a racial stalemate we've been stuck in for years. And contrary to the claims of some of my
critics, black and white, I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our
racial divisions in a single election cycle or with a single candidate, particularly -- particularly a
candidacy as imperfect as my own. But I have asserted a firm conviction, a conviction rooted
in my faith in God and my faith in the American people, that, working together, we can move
beyond some of our old racial wounds and that, in fact, we have no choice -- we have no
choice if we are to continue on the path of a more perfect union.
For the African-American community, that path means embracing the burdens of our past
without becoming victims of our past. It means continuing to insist on a full measure of justice
in every aspect of American life. But it also means binding our particular grievances, for better
health care and better schools and better jobs, to the larger aspirations of all Americans -- the
white woman struggling to break the glass ceiling, the white man who's been laid off, the
immigrant trying to feed his family. And it means also taking full responsibility for our own
lives -- by demanding more from our fathers, and spending more time with our children, and
reading to them, and teaching them that while they may face challenges and discrimination in
their own lives, they must never succumb to despair or cynicism. They must always believe --
They must always believe that they can write their own destiny.
Ironically, this quintessentially American -- and, yes, conservative -- notion of self-help found
frequent expression in Reverend Wright's sermons. But what my former pastor too often failed
to understand is that embarking on a program of self-help also requires a belief that society
can change. The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about
racism in our society. It's that he spoke as if our society was static, as if no progress had been
made, as if this country -- a country that has made it possible for one of his own members to
run for the highest office in the land and build a coalition of white and black, Latino, Asian,
rich, poor, young and old -- is still irrevocably bound to a tragic past. What we know, what we
have seen, is that America can change. That is true genius of this nation. What we have
already achieved gives us hope -- the audacity to hope -- for what we can and must achieve
tomorrow.
Now, in the white community, the path to a more perfect union means acknowledging that
what ails the African-American community does not just exist in the minds of black people;
that the legacy of discrimination -- and current incidents of discrimination, while less overt
than in the past -- that these things are real and must be addressed. Not just with words, but
with deeds -- by investing in our schools and our communities; by enforcing our civil rights
laws and ensuring fairness in our criminal justice system; by providing this generation with
ladders of opportunity that were unavailable for previous generations. It requires all
Americans to realize that your dreams do not have to come at the expense of my dreams,
that investing in the health, welfare, and education of black and brown and white children will
ultimately help all of America prosper.
In the end, then, what is called for is nothing more and nothing less than what all the world's
great religions demand: that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us. Let us be
our brother's keeper, Scripture tells us. Let us be our sister's keeper. Let us find that common
stake we all have in one another, and let our politics reflect that spirit as well.
For we have a choice in this country. We can accept a politics that breeds division and conflict
and cynicism. We can tackle race only as spectacle, as we did in the O.J. trial; or in the wake
of tragedy, as we did in the aftermath of Katrina; or as fodder for the nightly news. We can
play Reverend Wright's sermons on every channel every day and talk about them from now
until the election, and make the only question in this campaign whether or not the American
people think that I somehow believe or sympathize with his most offensive words. We can
pounce on some gaffe by a Hillary supporter as evidence that she's playing the race card; or
we can speculate on whether white men will all flock to John McCain in the general election
regardless of his policies. We can do that. But if we do, I can tell you that in the next election,
we'll be talking about some other distraction, and then another one, and then another one.
And nothing will change.
That is one option.
Or, at this moment, in this election, we can come together and say, "Not this time." This time
we want to talk about the crumbling schools that are stealing the future of black children and
white children and Asian children and Hispanic children and Native-American children. This
time we want to reject the cynicism that tells us that these kids can't learn; that those kids
who don't look like us are somebody else's problem. The children of America are not "those
kids," -- they are our kids, and we will not let them fall behind in a 21st-century economy. Not
this time. This time we want to talk about how the lines in the emergency room are filled with
whites and blacks and Hispanics who do not have health care, who don't have the power on
their own to overcome the special interests in Washington, but who can take them on if we do
it together.
This time we want to talk about the shuttered mills that once provided a decent life for men
and women of every race, and the homes for sale that once belonged to Americans from
every religion, every region, every walk of life. This time we want to talk about the fact that
the real problem is not that someone who doesn't look like you might take your job; it's that
the corporation you work for will ship it overseas for nothing more than a profit. This time --
This time we want to talk about the men and women of every color and creed who serve
together, and fight together, and bleed together under the same proud flag. We want to talk
about how to bring them home from a war that should've never been authorized and
should've never been waged. And we want to talk about how we'll show our patriotism by
caring for them, and their families, and giving them the benefits that they have earned.
I would not be running for President if I didn't believe with all my heart that this is what the
vast majority of Americans want for this country. This union may never be perfect, but
generation after generation has shown that it can always be perfected. And today, whenever I
find myself feeling doubtful or cynical about this possibility, what gives me the most hope is
the next generation -- the young people whose attitudes and beliefs and openness to change
have already made history in this election.
There's one story in particular that I'd like to leave you with today, a story I told when I had
the great honor of speaking on Dr. King's birthday at his home church, Ebenezer Baptist, in
Atlanta. There's a young, 23-year-old woman, a white woman named Ashley Baia, who
organized for our campaign in Florence, South Carolina. She'd been working to organize a
mostly African-American community since the beginning of this campaign, and one day she
was at a roundtable discussion where everyone went around telling their story and why they
were there. And Ashley said that when she was 9 years old, her mother got cancer. And
because she had to miss days of work, she was let go and lost her health care. They had to
file for bankruptcy, and that's when Ashley decided that she had to do something to help her
mom.
She knew that food was one of their most expensive costs, and so Ashley convinced her
mother that what she really liked and really wanted to eat more than anything else was
mustard and relish sandwiches -- because that was the cheapest way to eat. That's the mind
of a 9 year old. 
She did this for a year until her mom got better. And so Ashley told everyone at the
roundtable that the reason she had joined our campaign was so that she could help the
millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their parents too.
Now, Ashley might have made a different choice. Perhaps somebody told her along the way
that the source of her mother's problems were blacks who were on welfare and too lazy to
work, or Hispanics who were coming into the country illegally. But she didn't. She sought out
allies in her fight against injustice.
Anyway, Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks everyone else why
they're supporting the campaign. They all have different stories and different reasons. Many
bring up a specific issue. And finally they come to this elderly black man who's been sitting
there quietly the entire time. And Ashley asks him why he's there. And he doesn't bring up a
specific issue. He does not say health care or the economy. He does not say education or the
war. He does not say that he was there because of Barack Obama. He simply says to
everyone in the room, "I am here because of Ashley." "I'm here because of Ashley."
Now, by itself, that single moment of recognition between that young white girl and that old
black man is not enough. It is not enough to give health care to the sick, or jobs to the
jobless, or education to our children. But it is where we start. It is where our union grows
stronger. And as so many generations have come to realize over the course of the 221 years
since a band of patriots signed that document right here in Philadelphia, that is where
perfection begins. Thank you to the citizens of Berlin and thank you to the people of Germany. Let me thank 
Chancellor Merkel and Foreign Minister Steinmeier for welcoming me earlier today. Thank you
Mayor Wowereit, the Berlin Senate, the police, and most of all thanks to all of you for this 
extraordinary welcome. Thank you. 
I come to Berlin as so many of my countrymen have come before; although tonight, I speak 
to you not as a candidate for President, but as a citizen ­­ a proud citizen of the United States, 
and a fellow citizen of the world.
I know that I don’t look like the Americans who’ve previously spoken in this great city. The 
journey that led me here is improbable. My mother was born in the heartland of America, but
my father grew up herding goats in Kenya. His father ­­ my grandfather ­­ was a cook, a 
domestic servant to the British. 
At the height of the Cold War, my father decided, like so many others in the forgotten corners 
of the world, that his yearning ­­ his dream ­­ required the freedom and opportunity promised 
by the West. And so he wrote letter after letter to universities all across America until
somebody, somewhere answered his prayer for a better life. 
That is why I am here. And you are here because you too know that yearning. This city, of all
cities, knows the dream of freedom. And you know that the only reason we stand here tonight
is because men and women from both of our nations came together to work, and struggle,
and sacrifice for that better life.
Ours is a partnership that truly began 60 years ago this summer, on the day when the first
American plane touched down at Tempelhof. On that day much of this continent still lay in
ruin. The rubble of this city had yet to be built into a wall. The Soviet shadow had swept
across Eastern Europe, while in the West, America, Britain, and France took their stock of 
their losses, and pondered how the world might be remade.
This is where the two sides met. And on the twenty­fourth of June, 1948, the Communists 
chose to blockade the western part of the city. They cut off food and supplies to more than
two million Germans in an effort to extinguish the last flame of freedom in Berlin. 
The size of our forces was no match for the larger Soviet Army. And yet retreat would have 
allowed Communism to march across Europe. Where the last war had ended, another World 
War could have easily begun. And all that stood in the way was Berlin. And that’s when the 
airlift began, when the largest and most unlikely rescue in the history brought food and hope 
to the people of this city. 
The odds were stacked against success. In the winter, a heavy fog filled the sky above, and 
many planes were forced to turn back without dropping off the needed supplies. The streets 
where we stand were filled with hungry families who had no comfort from the cold.
But in the darkest hours, the people of Berlin kept the flame of hope burning. The people of 
Berlin refused to give up. And on one fall day, hundreds of thousands of Berliners came here,
to the Tiergarten, and heard the city’s mayor implore the world not to give up on freedom. 
“There is only one possibility,” he said. “For us to stand together united until this battle is 
won…The people of Berlin have spoken. We have done our duty," he said, "and we will keep 
on doing our duty. People of the world, now do your duty. People of the world, look at Berlin.”
People of the world ­­ look at Berlin!
Look at Berlin, where Germans and Americans learned to work together and trust each other 
less than three years after facing each other on the field of battle.
Look at Berlin, where the determination of a people met the generosity of the Marshall Plan 
and created a German miracle; where a ­­ where a victory over tyranny gave rise to NATO,
the greatest alliance ever formed to defend our common security. 
Look at Berlin, where the bullet holes in the buildings and the somber stones and pillars near 
the Brandenburg Gate insist that we never forget our common humanity. 
People of the world ­­ look at Berlin, where a wall came down, a continent came together, and 
history proved that there is no challenge too great for a world that stands as one. 
Sixty years after the airlift, we are called upon again. History has led us to a new crossroad,  with new promise and new peril.
When you, the German people, tore down that wall ­­ a wall that divided East and West; 
freedom and tyranny; fear and hope ­­ walls came tumbling down around the world. From 
Kiev to Cape Town, prison camps were closed, and the doors of democracy were opened.
Markets opened too, and the spread of information and technology reduced barriers to
opportunity and prosperity. While the 20th century taught us that we share a common
destiny, the 21st century has revealed a world more intertwined than at any time in human
history. 
The fall of the Berlin Wall brought new hope. But that very closeness has given rise to new
dangers that cannot be contained within the borders of a country or by the distance of an
ocean. 
Think about it: The terrorists of September 11th plotted in Hamburg and trained in Kandahar 
and Karachi before killing thousands from all over the globe on American soil. As we speak, 
cars in Boston and factories in Beijing are melting the ice caps in the Arctic, shrinking 
coastlines in the Atlantic, and bringing drought to farms from Kansas to Kenya.
Poorly secured nuclear material in the former Soviet Union, or secrets from a scientist in 
Pakistan could help build a bomb that detonates in Paris. The poppies in Afghanistan come to
Berlin in the form of the heroin. The poverty and violence in Somalia breeds the terror of 
tomorrow. The genocide in Darfur shames the conscience of us all. 
In this new world, such dangerous currents have swept along faster than our efforts to contain
them. And that is why we cannot afford to be divided. No one nation, no matter how large or 
powerful, can defeat such challenges alone. None of us can deny these threats, or escape 
responsibility in meeting them. In the absence of Soviet tanks and a terrible wall, it has 
become easy to forget this truth. And if we’re honest with each other, we know that 
sometimes, on both sides of the Atlantic, we have drifted apart, and forgotten our shared
destiny. 
In Europe, the view that America is part of what has gone wrong in our world, rather than a 
force to help us make it right, has become all too common. In America, there are voices that
deride and deny the importance of Europe’s role in our security and our future. Both views 
miss the truth: that Europeans today are bearing new burdens and taking more responsibility 
in critical parts of the world; and that just as American bases built in the last century still help 
to defend the security of this continent, so does our country still sacrifice greatly for freedom 
around the globe.
Yes, there have been differences between America and Europe. No doubt, there will be 
differences in the future. But the burdens of global citizenship continue to bind us together. A 
change of leadership in Washington will not lift this burden. In this new century, Americans 
and Europeans alike will be required to do more ­­ not less. Partnership and cooperation
among nations is not a choice; it is the only way, the one way, to protect our common
security and advance our common humanity.
That is why the greatest danger of all is to allow new walls to divide us from one another. The 
walls between old allies on either side of the Atlantic cannot stand. The walls between the 
countries with the most and those with the least cannot stand. The walls between races and 
tribes; natives and immigrants; Christians and Muslims and Jews cannot stand. These now are 
the walls we must tear down.  We know that these walls have fallen before. After centuries of strife, the people of Europe 
have formed a Union of promise and prosperity. Here, at the base of a column built to mark 
victory in war, we meet in the center of a Europe at peace. Not only have walls come down in
Berlin, but they've come down in Belfast, where Protestant and Catholic found a way to live 
together; in the Balkans, where our Atlantic alliance ended wars and brought savage war 
criminals to justice; and in South Africa, where the struggle of a courageous people defeated 
apartheid.
So history reminds us that walls can be torn down. But the task is never easy. True 
partnership and true progress requires constant work and sustained sacrifice. They require 
sharing the burdens of development and diplomacy; of peace and progress. They require allies 
who will listen to each other, learn from each other and, most of all, trust each other. 
That is why America cannot turn inward. That is why Europe cannot turn inward. America has 
no better partner than Europe. Now is the time to build new bridges across the globe as 
strong as the one that binds us across the Atlantic. Now is the time to join together, through
constant cooperation and strong institutions and shared sacrifice and a global commitment to
progress, to meet the challenges of the 21st century. It was this spirit that led airlift planes to
appear in the sky above our heads, and people to assemble where we stand today. And this is 
the moment when our nations ­­ and all nations ­­ must summon that spirit anew. 
This is the moment when we must defeat terror and dry up the well of extremism that 
supports it. This threat is real and we cannot shrink from our responsibility to combat it. If we 
could create NATO to face down the Soviet Union, we can join in a new and global partnership 
to dismantle the networks that have struck in Madrid and Amman; in London and Bali; in
Washington and New York. If we could win a battle of ideas against the communists, we can 
stand with the vast majority of Muslims who reject the extremism that leads to hate instead of 
hope.
This is the moment when we must renew our resolve to rout the terrorists who threaten our 
security in Afghanistan, and the traffickers who sell drugs on your streets. No one welcomes 
war. I recognize the enormous difficulties in Afghanistan. But my country and yours have a 
stake in seeing that NATO’s first mission beyond Europe’s borders is a success. For the people 
of Afghanistan, and for our shared security, the work must be done. America can't do this 
alone.  The Afghan people need our troops and your troops; our support and your support to
defeat the Taliban and al Qaeda, to develop their economy, and to help them rebuild their 
nation. We have too much at stake to turn back now.
This is the moment when we must renew the goal of a world without nuclear weapons.  The 
two superpowers that faced each other across the wall of this city came too close too often to
destroying all we have built and all that we love. With that wall gone, we need not stand idly 
by and watch the further spread of the deadly atom. It is time to secure all loose nuclear 
materials; to stop the spread of nuclear weapons; and to reduce the arsenals from another 
era. This is the moment to begin the work of seeking the peace of a world without nuclear 
weapons. 
This is the moment when every nation in Europe must have the chance to choose its own
tomorrow, free from the shadows of yesterday. In this century, we need a strong European
Union that deepens the security and prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand 
abroad. In this century ­­ in this city of all cities ­­ we must reject the Cold War mind­set of 
the past, and resolve to work with Russia when we can, to stand up for our values when we 
must, and to seek a partnership that extends across this entire continent. 
This is the moment when we must build on the wealth that open markets have created, and 
share the benefits more equitably. Trade has been a cornerstone of our growth and global
development. But we will not be able to sustain this growth if it favors the few, and not the 
many. Together we must forge trade that truly rewards the work that creates wealth, with
meaningful protections for our people and our planet. This is the moment for trade that is free 
and fair for all. 
This is the moment we must help answer the call for a new dawn in the Middle East. My 
country must stand with yours and with Europe in sending a direct message to Iran that it
must abandon its nuclear ambitions. We must support the Lebanese who've marched and bled 
for democracy, and the Israelis and the Palestinians who seek a secure and lasting peace. And 
despite past differences, this is the moment when the world should support the millions of 
Iraqis who seek to rebuild their lives, even as we pass responsibility to the Iraqi government
and finally bring this war to a close. 
This is the moment when we must come together to save this planet. Let us resolve that we 
will not leave our children to a world where the oceans rise and famine spreads and terrible 
storms devastate our lands. Let us resolve that all nations ­­ including my own ­­ will act with
the same seriousness of purpose as has your nation, and reduce the carbon we send into our 
atmosphere. This is the moment to give our children back their future. This is the moment to
stand as one. 
And this is the moment when we must give hope to those left behind in a globalized world. We 
must remember that the Cold War born in this city was not a battle for land or treasure. Sixty 
years ago, the planes that flew over Berlin did not drop bombs; instead they delivered food,
and coal, and candy to grateful children. And in that show of solidarity, those pilots won more 
than a military victory. They won hearts and minds; love and loyalty and trust ­­ not just from 
the people in this city, but from all those who heard the story of what they did here.
Now the world will watch and remember what we do here with this moment. Will we extend 
our hand to the people in the forgotten corners of this world who yearn for lives marked by 
dignity and opportunity, by security and justice? Will we lift the child in Bangladesh from 
poverty, and shelter the refugee in Chad, and banish the scourge of AIDS in our time? 
Will we stand for the human rights of the dissident in Burma, the blogger in Iran, or the voter 
in Zimbabwe? Will we give meaning to the words “never again” in Darfur? 
Will we acknowledge that there is no more powerful example than the one each of our nations 
projects to the world? Will we reject torture and stand for the rule of law? Will we welcome 
immigrants from different lands, and shun discrimination against those who don’t look like us 
or worship like we do, and keep the promise of equality and opportunity for all of our people? 
People of Berlin ­­ people of the world ­­ this is our moment. This is our time. 
I know my country has not perfected itself. At times, we’ve struggled to keep the promise of 
liberty and equality for all of our people. We’ve made our share of mistakes, and there are 
times when our actions around the world have not lived up to our best intentions. 
But I also know how much I love America. I know that for more than two centuries, we have 
strived ­­ at great cost and great sacrifice ­­ to form a more perfect union; to seek, with other 
nations, a more hopeful world. Our allegiance has never been to any particular tribe or 
kingdom ­­ indeed, every language is spoken in our country; every culture has left its imprint
on ours; every point of view is expressed in our public squares. What has always united us, 
what has always driven our people, what drew my father to America’s shores is a set of ideals 
that speak to aspirations shared by all people: that we can live free from fear and free from 
want; that we can speak our minds and assemble with whomever we choose and worship as 
we please. 
These are the aspirations that join the fates of all nations in this city. These aspirations are 
bigger than anything that drives us apart. It is because of these aspirations that the airlift
began. It is because of these aspirations that all free people ­­ everywhere ­­ became citizens 
of Berlin. It is in pursuit of these aspirations that a new generation ­­ our generation ­­ must
make our mark on the world.
People of Berlin, and people of the world, the scale of our challenge is great. The road ahead
will be long. But I come before you to say that we are heirs to a struggle for freedom. We are 
a people of improbable hope. With an eye toward the future, with resolve in our heart, let us 
remember this history, and answer our destiny, and remake the world once again. Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you to the distinguished Senator from
Connecticut not only for yielding time, but also for the extraordinarily hard work that he's put
in over the last several days and, in fact, over a -- a week. And I want to thank his
counterparts on the other side, including Senator Gregg, for their hard work.
Now, the fact that we're even here voting on a plan to rescue our economy from the greed
and irresponsibility of Wall Street and some in Washington is an outrage. It's an outrage to
every American who works hard, pays their taxes, is doing their best every day to make a
better life for themselves and their families. And understandably, people are frustrated and
they're angry that Wall Street's mistakes have put their tax dollars at risk. And they should
be. I'm frustrated and angry, too.
But while there's plenty of blame to go around -- and many in Washington and Wall Street
who deserve it, all of us -- all of us have a responsibility to solve this crisis, because it affects
the financial well-being of every single American. There will be time to punish those who set
this fire, but now is not the time to argue about how it got set, or did the neighbor sleep in his
bed, or leave the stove on. Right now we want to put out that fire; and now's the time for us
to come together and do that.
When the House of Representatives failed to act on Monday, we saw the single largest decline
in the stock market in two decades. Over one trillion dollars of wealth was lost by the time the
markets closed. And it wasn't just the wealth of a few CEOs or Wall Street executives. The
401(k)s and retirement accounts of millions became smaller. The state pension funds of
teachers and government employees lost billions upon billions of dollars. Hard-working
Americans who invested their nest egg to watch it grow saw it diminish and in some cases
disappear.
And while that decline was devastating, the consequences of the credit crisis that caused it
will be even worse if we do not act now. We're in a very dangerous situation, where financial
institutions across this country are afraid to lend money. And if all that meant was the failure
of a few banks in New York, that would be one thing. But that's not what it means. What it
means is, if we don't act, it will be harder for Americans to get a mortgage for their home or
loans they need to buy a car or send their children to college.
What it means is that businesses won't be able to get the loans they need to open a new
factory or make payroll for their workers. And if they can't make payroll on Friday, then
workers are laid off on Monday. And if workers are laid off on Monday, then they can't pay
their bills or pay back their loans to somebody else. And it will go on and on and on, rippling
through the entire economy. And potentially we could see thousands of businesses close,
millions of jobs could be lost, and a long and painful recession could follow. In other words,
this is not just a Wall Street crisis; it's an American crisis. And it's the American economy that
needs this rescue plan.
I understand completely why people would be skeptical when this President asks for a blank
check to solve this problem. I was, too, as was Senator Dodd and a whole bunch of us here.
And that's why, over a week ago, I demanded that this plan include some specific proposals to
protect taxpayers, protections that the Administration eventually agreed to, and, thanks to the
hard work of Senator Dodd and Republican counterparts like Senator Gregg, we here in the
Senate have agreed to, and now hopefully the House will agree to, as well.
Let me just go over those principles:
Number one, I said we needed an independent board to provide oversight and
accountability for how and where this money is spent at every step of the way.
Number two, I said that we cannot help banks on Wall Street without helping the
millions of innocent homeowners who are struggling to stay in their homes. They
deserve a plan, too.
Number three, I said that I would not allow this plan to become a welfare program for
Wall Street executives, whose greed and irresponsibility got us into this mess.
And, finally, I said that, if American taxpayers are financing this solution, then they
have to be treated like investors. They should get every penny of their tax dollars back
once the economy recovers.
Now, this last part is important, because it's been the most misunderstood and poorly
communicated part of this plan. This is not a plan to just hand over 700 billion dollars of
taxpayer money to a few banks. If this is managed correctly -- and that's an important "if" --
we will hopefully get most or all of our money back and possibly even turn a profit on the
government's intervention, every penny of which will go directly back to the American people.
And if we fall short, we will levy a fee on financial institutions so that they can repay for the
losses that they caused.
Now, let me -- let's acknowledge, even with all these taxpayer protections, this plan is not
perfect. Democrats and Republicans in Congress have legitimate concerns about it. Some of
my closest colleagues, people I have the greatest respect for, still have problems with it and
may choose to vote against this bill, and I think that we can respectfully disagree. I
understand their frustrations.
I also know that many -- many Americans share their concerns. But it's clear that, from my
perspective, this is what we need to do right now to prevent the possibility of a crisis turning
into a catastrophe. It is conceivable -- it's possible that if we did nothing everything would
turn out okay. It's -- There -- There's a possibility that that's true. And there's no doubt that
there may be other plans out there that, had we had two or three or six months to develop,
might be even more refined and might serve our purposes better.
But we don't have that kind of time. And we can't afford to take a risk that the economy of
the United States of America and, as a consequence, the worldwide economy could be
plunged into a very, very deep hole. So to Democrats and Republicans who've opposed this
plan, I say: Step up to the plate. Let's do what's right for the country at this time, because
the time to act is now.
I know many Americans are wondering what happens next. And passing this bill can't be the
end of our work to strengthen our economy; it must be the beginning. Because one thing I --
I think all of us who may end up supporting this bill understand is that, even if we get this in
place, we could still have enormous problems and probably will have big problems in the
economy over the next several months and potentially longer; because the fact is, is that we
have seen some mismanagement of the fundamentals of the economy for a very long time,
and we are not going to dig ourselves out of that hole immediately.
So this is not the end. This is the beginning. As soon as we pass this rescue plan, we need to
move aggressively with the same sense of urgency to rescue families on Main Street who are
struggling to pay their bills and keep their jobs. They've been in crisis a lot longer than Wall
Street has.
I've said it before and I say it again: We need to pass an economic stimulus package that will
help ordinary Americans cope with rising food and gas prices, that can save one million jobs
rebuilding our schools, and roads, and our infrastructure, and help states and cities avoid
budget cuts and tax increase[s], a -- a plan that would extend expiring unemployment
benefits for those Americans who've lost their jobs and cannot find new ones. That's the right
thing to do at a time when consumer confidence is down and we are in great danger of
slipping into a big recession.
We also must do more in this rescue package in order to help homeowners stay in their
homes. I will continue to advocate bankruptcy reforms. I know my colleague from Illinois,
Dick Durbin, has been a strong champion of this, as have many. It is the right thing to do to
change our bankruptcy laws so that people have a better chance of staying in their homes and
we're not seeing communities devastated all across the country. And we should encourage
Treasury to study the option of buying individual mortgages, like we did successfully in the
1930s.
And finally, while we all hope that this rescue package succeeds, we should be prepared to
take more vigorous actions in the months ahead to rebuild capital, if it's necessary.
Now, just as families are planning for their future in tough times, Washington's going to have
to do the same. Runaway spending and record deficits are not how families run their budgets.
It can't be how Washington handles people's tax dollars. So we're going to have to return to
the fiscal responsibility we had in the 1990s. And the next White House and the next Congress
is going to have to work together to make sure that we go through our budget, we get rid of
programs that don't work, that we make the ones that do work better and cost less. With less
money flowing into the Treasury, some useful programs or policies might need to be delayed.
And some might be -- need to be stretched out over a longer period of time.
But there are certain investments in our future that we cannot delay, precisely because our
economy is in turmoil.
Mr. President, I've exceeded the time a little bit. I would like unanimous consent for a couple
more minutes.
[Cross talk from the Floor]
Senate President: Is there objection? Seeing no objection --
Senator Obama: Thank you.
There are certain investments in our future that we can't delay precisely be -- because the
economy's in turmoil. We can't wait to help Americans keep up with rising costs and shrinking
paychecks, and we're going to do that by making sure that we are giving our workers a
middle-class tax cut.
We can't wait to relieve the burden of crushing health care costs. We can't wait to create
millions of new jobs by rebuilding our roads and our bridges, and investing in broadband lines
in rural communities, and fixing our electricity grid so we can get renewable energy to
population centers that need them. And we need to develop an energy policy that prevents us
from sending 700 billion dollars a year to tyrants and dictators for their oil. We can't wait to
educate the next generation of Americans with the skills and knowledge they need to compete
with any workers anywhere in the world. These are the priorities we cannot delay.
Now, let me just close by saying this: I do not think this is going to be easy. It's not going to
come without costs. We are all going to need to sacrifice. We're all going to need to pull our
weight, because now, more than ever, we are all in this together. That's part of what this
crisis has taught us -- that in the end of the day, there's no real separation between Wall
Street and Main Street. There's only the road we're traveling on as Americans. And we will
rise or fall on that journey as one nation and as one people.
I know that many Americans are feeling anxiety right now about their jobs, about their
homes, about their life savings. But I also know this, that we can steer ourselves out of this
crisis. We are -- always have. During the great financial crisis of the last century, in his first
fireside chat, FDR told his fellow Americans that,
There is an element in the re-adjustment of our financial system more important than
currency, more important than gold, and that is the confidence of the people
themselves. Confidence and courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our
plan.
Let us unite in banishing fear. Together we cannot fail. We cannot fail, not now, not tomorrow,
not next year.
This is a nation that's faced down war and depression, great challenges and great threats. And
at each and every moment, we have risen to meet up these challenges, not as Democrats, not
as Republicans, but as Americans, with resolve and with confidence, with that fundamental
belief that, here in America, our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us. And that's who
we are. And that's the country I know we can be right now.
I want to thank again the extraordinary leadership of Chairman Dodd and Banking -- the
Banking Committee, as well as Chairman Baucus and Majority Leader Reid. They have worked
tirelessly. I want to thank the leadership in the House of Representatives.
I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, understanding that
this will not solve all our problems. It is a necessary but not sufficient step to make sure that
this economy once again works on behalf of all Americans in their pursuit of the American
dream.If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all things are 
possible; who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time; who still
questions the power of our democracy, tonight is your answer.
It's the answer told by lines that stretched around schools and churches in numbers this 
nation has never seen; by people who waited three hours and four hours, many for the very 
first time in their lives, because they believed that this time must be different; that their 
voices could be that difference. 
It's the answer spoken by young and old, rich and poor, Democrat and Republican, black, 
white, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, disabled and not disabled ­­ Americans 
who sent a message to the world that we have never been just a collection of individuals or a 
collection of Red States and Blue States: we are, and always will be, the United States of 
America!
It's the answer that led those who have been told for so long by so many to be cynical, and 
fearful, and doubtful about what we can achieve to put their hands on the arc of history and 
bend it once more toward the hope of a better day.
It's been a long time coming, but tonight, because of what we did on this day, in this election,  at this defining moment, change has come to America.
A little bit earlier this evening, I received an extraordinarily gracious call from Senator McCain.  Senator McCain fought long and hard in this campaign, and he's fought even longer and 
harder for the country that he loves. He has endured sacrifices for America that most of us 
cannot begin to imagine. We are better off for the service rendered by this brave and selfless 
leader. I congratulate him; I congratulate Governor Palin for all that they've achieved, and I
look forward to working with them to renew this nation's promise in the months ahead. 
I want to thank my partner in this journey, a man who campaigned from his heart and spoke 
for the men and women he grew up with on the streets of Scranton and rode with on the train
home to Delaware, the Vice President­elect of the United States, Joe Biden. 
And I would not be standing here tonight without the unyielding support of my best friend for 
the last 16 years, the rock of our family, the love of my life, the nation's next First Lady: 
Michelle Obama. Sasha and Malia, I love you both more than you can imagine, and you have 
earned the new puppy that's coming with us to the White House. And while she's no longer 
with us, I know my grandmother's watching, along with the family that made me who I am. I
miss them tonight, and I know that my debt to them is beyond measure. To my sister Maya,
my sister Alma, all my other brothers and sisters ­­ thank you so much for the support that
you've given me. I am grateful to them. 
And to my campaign manager, David Plouffe ­­ the unsung hero of this campaign, who built
the best political campaign, I think, in the history of the United States of America. To my chief 
strategist David Axelrod ­­ who's been a partner with me every step of the way. To the best
campaign team ever assembled in the history of politics ­­ you made this happen, and I am 
forever grateful for what you've sacrificed to get it done.
But above all, I will never forget who this victory truly belongs to. It belongs to you. It
belongs to you. I was never the likeliest candidate for this office. We didn't start with much
money or many endorsements. Our campaign was not hatched in the halls of Washington. It
began in the backyards of Des Moines and the living rooms of Concord and the front porches 
of Charleston. It was built by working men and women who dug into what little savings they 
had to give 5 dollars and 10 dollars and 20 dollars to the cause. It grew strength from the 
young people who rejected the myth of their generation's apathy, who left their homes and 
their families for jobs that offered little pay and less sleep. It drew strength from the not­so­  young people who braved the bitter cold and scorching heat to knock on doors of perfect
strangers, and from the millions of Americans who volunteered and organized and proved that
more than two centuries later a government of the people, by the people, and for the people 
has not perished from the Earth. This is your victory. 
And I know you didn't do this just to win an election. And I know you didn't do it for me. You
did it because you understand the enormity of the task that lies ahead. For even as we 
celebrate tonight, we know the challenges that tomorrow will bring are the greatest of our 
lifetime: two wars, a planet in peril, the worst financial crisis in a century. Even as we stand 
here tonight, we know there are brave Americans waking up in the deserts of Iraq and the 
mountains of Afghanistan to risk their lives for us. There are mothers and fathers who will lie 
awake after the children fall asleep and wonder how they'll make the mortgage or pay their
doctors' bills or save enough for their child's college education. There's new energy to
harness, new jobs to be created, new schools to build, and threats to meet, alliances to repair. 
The road ahead will be long. Our climb will be steep. We may not get there in one year or 
even in one term. But, America, I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we 
will get there. I promise you, we as a people will get there. 
There will be setbacks and false starts. There are many who won't agree with every decision
or policy I make as President. And we know the government can't solve every problem. But I
will always be honest with you about the challenges we face. I will listen to you, especially 
when we disagree. And, above all, I will ask you to join in the work of remaking this nation,  the only way it's been done in America for 221 years ­­ block by block, brick by brick, 
calloused hand by calloused hand. What began 21 months ago in the depths of winter cannot
end on this autumn night. 
This victory alone is not the change we seek. It is only the chance for us to make that change.
And that cannot happen if we go back to the way things were. It can't happen without you,  without a new spirit of service, a new spirit of sacrifice. So let us summon a new spirit of 
patriotism, of responsibility, where each of us resolves to pitch in and work harder and look 
after not only ourselves but each other. Let us remember that, if this financial crisis taught us 
anything, it's that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street while Main Street suffers. In this 
country, we rise or fall as one nation, as one people. Let's resist the temptation to fall back on
the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long.
Let's remember that it was a man from this state who first carried the banner of the 
Republican Party to the White House, a Party founded on the values of self­reliance and 
individual liberty and national unity. Those are values that we all share. And while the 
Democratic Party has won a great victory tonight, we do so with a measure of humility and 
determination to heal the divides that have held back our progress. As Lincoln said to a nation
far more divided than ours: "We are not enemies but friends...." "Though passion may have 
strained, it must not break our bonds of affection."¹ 
And to those Americans who whose support I have yet to earn, I may not have won your vote 
tonight, but I hear your voices. I need your help. And I will be your President, too. 
And to all those watching tonight from beyond our shores, from parliaments and palaces, to
those who are huddled around radios in the forgotten corners of the world, our stories are 
singular, but our destiny is shared, and a new dawn of American leadership is at hand.
To those who would tear the world down: We will defeat you. To those who seek peace and 
security: We support you. And to all those who have wondered if America's beacon still burns 
as bright: Tonight we've proved once more that the true strength of our nation comes not
from the might of our arms or the scale of our wealth, but from the enduring power of our 
ideals: democracy, liberty, opportunity, and unyielding hope.
That's the true genius of America: that America can change. Our union can be perfected. What 
we've already achieved gives us hope for what we can and must achieve tomorrow. 
This election had many firsts and many stories that will be told for generations. But one that's 
on my mind tonight's about a woman who cast her ballot in Atlanta. She's a lot like the 
millions of others who stood in line to make their voice heard in this election except for one 
thing: Ann Nixon Cooper is 106 years old.
She was born just a generation past slavery; a time when there were no
cars on the road or planes in the sky; when someone like her couldn't vote for two reasons: 
because she was a woman and because of the color of her skin. 
And tonight, I think about all that she's seen throughout her century in America ­­ the 
heartache and the hope; the struggle and the progress; the times we were told that we can't,  and the people who pressed on with that American creed: Yes we can. 
At a time when women's voices were silenced and their hopes dismissed, she lived to see 
them stand up and speak out and reach for the ballot: Yes we can. 
When there was despair in the dust bowl and depression across the land, she saw a nation
conquer fear itself with a New Deal, new jobs, a new sense of common purpose: Yes we can. 
When the bombs fell on our harbor and tyranny threatened the world, she was there to
witness a generation rise to greatness and a democracy was saved: Yes we can. 
She was there for the buses in Montgomery, the hoses in Birmingham, a bridge in Selma, and 
a preacher from Atlanta who told a people that "we shall overcome": Yes we can. 
A man touched down on the moon, a wall came down in Berlin, a world was connected by our 
own science and imagination. 
And this year, in this election, she touched her finger to a screen, and cast her vote, because 
after 106 years in America, through the best of times and the darkest of hours, she knows 
how America can change: Yes we can. 
America, we have come so far. We have seen so much. But there is so much more to do. So
tonight, let us ask ourselves ­­ if our children should live to see the next century; if my 
daughters should be so lucky to live as long as Ann Nixon Cooper, what change will they see? 
What progress will we have made?
This is our chance to answer that call. This is our moment. This is our time, to put our people 
back to work and open doors of opportunity for our kids; to restore prosperity and promote 
the cause of peace; to reclaim the American dream and reaffirm that fundamental truth, that,  out of many, we are one;² that while we breathe, we hope. And where we are met with
cynicism and doubt and those who tell us that we can't, we will respond with that timeless 
creed that sums up the spirit of a people: Yes, we can. 
Thank you. 
God bless you. 
And may God bless the United States of America.
This morning we woke up to more sobering news about the state of our economy. The 
240,000 jobs lost in October marks the 10th consecutive month that our economy has shed 
jobs. In total, we've lost nearly 1.2 million jobs this year, and more than 10 million Americans 
are now unemployed. Tens of millions of families are struggling to figure out how to pay the 
bills and stay in their homes. Their stories are an urgent reminder that we are facing the 
greatest economic challenge of our lifetime, and we're going to have to act swiftly to resolve 
it.
Now, the United States has only one government and one President at a time, and until
January 20th of next year, that government is the current Administration. I've spoken to
President Bush. I appreciate his commitment to ensuring that his economic policy team keeps 
us fully informed as developments unfold. And I'm also thankful for his invitation to the White 
House.
Immediately after I become President, I'm going to confront this economic crisis head­on by 
taking all necessary steps to ease the credit crisis, help hardworking families, and restore 
growth and prosperity. This morning I met with members of my Transition Economic Advisory 
Board, who are standing behind me, alongside my Vice President­elect, Joe Biden. They will
help to guide the work of my transition team, working with Rahm Emanuel, my Chief of Staff, 
in developing a strong set of policies to respond to this crisis. 
We discussed in the earlier meeting several of the most immediate challenges facing our 
economy and key priorities on which to focus on in the days and weeks ahead.
First of all, we need a rescue plan for the middle class that invests in immediate efforts to
create jobs and provide relief to families that are watching their paychecks shrink and their 
life savings disappear. A particularly urgent priority is a further extension of ­­ of 
unemployment insurance benefits for workers who cannot find work in the increasingly weak 
economy. A fiscal stimulus plan that will jump­start economic growth is long overdue. I've 
talked about it throughout this ­­ the last few months of the campaign. We should get it done.
Second, we have to address the spreading impact of the financial crisis on the other sectors of 
our economy ­­ small businesses that are struggling to meet their payrolls and finance their 
holiday inventories, and state and municipal governments facing devastating budget cuts and 
tax increases. We must also remember that the financial crisis is increasingly global and 
requires a global response. 
The news coming out of the auto industry this week reminds us of the hardship it faces ­­  hardship that goes far beyond individual auto companies to the countless suppliers, small
businesses, and communities throughout our nation who depend on a vibrant American auto
industry. The auto industry is the backbone of American manufacturing and a critical part of 
our attempt to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 
I would like to see the Administration do everything it can to accelerate the retooling 
assistance that Congress has already enacted. In addition, I have made it a high priority for 
my transition team to work on additional policy options to help the auto industry adjust,  weather the financial crisis, and succeed in producing fuel­efficient cars here in the United 
States of America. And I was glad to be joined today by Governor Jennifer Granholm, who
obviously has great knowledge and great interest on this issue. I've asked my team to explore 
what we can do under current law and whether additional legislation will be needed for this 
purpose. 
Third, we will review the implementation of this Administration's financial program to ensure 
that the government's efforts are achieving their central goal of stabilizing financial markets 
while protecting taxpayers, helping homeowners, and not unduly rewarding the management
of financial firms that are receiving government assistance. It is absolutely critical that the 
Treasury work closely with the FDIC, HUD, and other government agencies to use the 
substantial authority that they already have to help families avoid foreclosure and stay in their 
homes. 
Finally, as we monitor and address these immediate economic challenges, we will be moving 
forward in laying out a set of policies that will grow our middle class and strengthen our 
economy in the long term. We cannot afford to wait on moving forward on the key priorities 
that I identified during the campaign, including clean energy, health care, education, and tax 
relief for middle­class families. My transition team will be working on each of these priorities in
the weeks ahead, and I intend to reconvene this advisory board to discuss the best ideas for 
responding to these immediate problems.
Let me close by saying this: I do not underestimate the enormity of the task that lies ahead.  We have taken some major action to date, and we will need further action during this 
transition and subsequent months. Some of the choices that we make are going to be difficult.  And I have said before and I will repeat again: It is not going to be quick and it is not going to
be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in, but America is a strong and 
resilient country. And I know we will succeed if we put aside partisanship and politics and 
work together as one nation. That's what I intend to do. Let me begin by thanking the bipartisan group of U.S. Governors who convened this meeting.
Few challenges facing America ­­ and the world ­­ are more urgent than combating climate 
change. The science is beyond dispute and the facts are clear. Sea levels are rising. Coastlines 
are shrinking. We’ve seen record drought, spreading famine, and storms that are growing 
stronger with each passing hurricane season. 
Climate change and our dependence on foreign oil, if left unaddressed, will continue to
weaken our economy and threaten our national security. 
I know many of you are working to confront this challenge. In particular, I want to commend 
Governor Sebelius, Governor Doyle, Governor Crist, Governor Blagojevich and your host,  Governor Schwarzenegger. All of you have shown true leadership in the fight to combat global
warming. And we’ve also seen a number of businesses doing their part by investing in clean
energy technologies. 
But too often, Washington has failed to show the same kind of leadership. That will change 
when I take office. My presidency will mark a new chapter in America’s leadership on climate 
change that will strengthen our security and create millions of new jobs in the process. That
will start with a federal cap and trade system.
We'll establish strong annual targets that set us on a course to reduce emissions to their 1990 
levels by 2020 and reduce them an additional 80% by 2050. Further, we'll invest 15 billion
dollars each year to catalyze private sector efforts to build a clean energy future. We'll invest
in solar power, wind power, and next­generation biofuels. We'll tap nuclear power, while 
making sure it’s safe; and we'll develop clean coal technologies. 
This investment will not only help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil, making the United 
States more secure; and it will not only help us bring about a clean energy future, saving the 
planet. It will also help us transform our industries and steer our country out of this economic 
crisis by generating five million new green jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced.
The truth is, the United States can't meet this challenge alone. Solving this problem will
require all of us working together. I understand that your meeting is being attended by 
government officials from over a dozen countries, including the UK, Canada, Mexico, Brazil
and Chile, Poland and Australia, India and Indonesia. And I look forward to working with all
nations to meet this challenge in the coming years. 
Let me also say a special word to the delegates from around the world who will gather at
Poland next month. Your work is vital to the planet. While I won’t be President at the time of 
your meeting and while the United States has only one President at a time, I’ve asked 
Members of Congress who are attending the conference as observers to report back to me on 
what they learn there. And once I take office, you can be sure that the United States will once 
again engage vigorously in these negotiations, and help lead the world toward a new era of 
global cooperation on climate change.
Now is the time to confront this challenge once and for all. Delay is no longer an option.  Denial is no longer an acceptable response. The stakes are too high; the consequences too
serious. Stopping climate change won’t be easy and it won’t happen overnight. But I promise 
you this: When I am President, any governor who’s willing to promote clean energy will have 
a partner in the White House. Any company that’s willing to invest in clean energy will have 
an ally in Washington. And any nation that’s willing to join the cause of combating climate 
change will have an ally in the United States of America. The news this past week, including this morning’s news about Citigroup, has made it even
more clear that we are facing an economic crisis of historic proportions. Our financial markets 
are under stress. New home purchases in October were the lowest in half­a­century. Recently, 
more than half­a­million jobless claims were filed, the highest in 18 years. And if we do not
act swiftly and boldly, most experts now believe that we could lose millions of jobs next year.
While we can’t underestimate the challenges that we face, we also can’t underestimate our 
capacity to overcome them, to summon that spirit of determination and optimism that has 
always defined us, and to move forward in a new direction to create new jobs, reform our 
financial system, and fuel long­term economic growth.  We know this won’t be easy, and it won’t happen overnight. We’ll need to bring together the 
best minds in America to guide us, and that is what I’ve sought to do in assembling my 
economic team. I’ve sought leaders who could offer both sound judgment and fresh thinking,
both a depth of experience and a wealth of bold, new ideas, and most of all who share my 
fundamental belief that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street without a thriving Main Street,  that in this country we rise or fall as one nation, as one people.
Today, Vice President­elect Biden and I are pleased to announce the nomination of four 
individuals who meet these criteria to lead our economic team: Timothy Geithner, as secretary 
of treasury; Lawrence Summers, as the director of our National Economic Council; Christina 
Romer, as chair of the Council of Economic Advisers; and Melody Barnes, as director of the 
Domestic Policy Council.
Having served in senior roles at Treasury, the IMF, and the New York Fed, Tim Geithner offers 
not just extensive experience shaping economic policy and managing financial markets, he 
also has an unparalleled understanding of our current economic crisis in all of its depth,  complexity, and urgency. Tim will waste no time getting up to speed. He will start his first day 
on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today’s markets and a clear vision of the 
steps we must take to revive them. The reality is that the economic crisis we face is no longer 
just an American crisis; it’s a global crisis. And we will need to reach out to countries around 
the world to craft a global response. Tim’s extensive international experience makes him 
uniquely suited to do that work. 
Growing up partly in Africa and having lived and worked throughout Asia, having served as 
undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs, one of the many roles in the 
international arena, and having studied both Chinese and Japanese, Tim understands the 
language of today’s international markets in more ways than one. Tim served with distinction
under both Democrats and Republicans and has a long history of working comfortably and as 
an honest broker on both sides of the aisle. With stellar performances and outstanding results 
at every stage of his career, Tim has earned the confidence and respect of business, financial,  and community leaders, members of Congress, and political leaders around the world. And I
know he will do so once again as America’s next treasury secretary, the chief economic 
spokesman for my Administration. 
Now, like Tim, Larry Summers also brings a singular combination of skill, intellect, and 
experience to the role he will play in our Administration. As undersecretary, deputy secretary, 
and then secretary of the treasury, Larry helped guide us through several major international
financial crises and was a central architect of the policies that led to the longest economic 
expansion in American history, with record surpluses, rising family incomes, and more than 20 
million new jobs. He also championed a range of measures, from tax credits to enhanced 
lending programs to consumer financial protections, that greatly benefited middle­income 
families. 
As a thought leader, Larry has urged us to confront the problems of income inequality and the 
middle­class squeeze, consistently arguing that the key to a strong economy is a strong,
vibrant, growing middle class. This idea is at the core of my own economic philosophy and will
be the foundation of all of my economic policies. 
And as one of the great economic minds of our time, Larry has earned a global reputation for 
being able to cut to the heart of the most complex and novel policy challenges. With respect
to both our current financial crisis and other pressing economic issues of our time, his 
thinking, writing, and speaking have set the terms of the debate. I’m glad he will be by my 
side, playing the critical role of coordinating my Administration’s economic policy in the White 
House, and I will rely heavily on his advice as we navigate the uncharted waters of this 
economic crisis.
As one of the most expert people in America on economic crises and how to solve them, my 
next nominee, Christina Romer, will bring a critically needed perspective to her work as chair 
of my Council of Economic Advisors. Christina is both a leading macroeconomist and a leading 
economic historian, perhaps best known for her work on America’s recovery from the Great 
Depression and the robust economic expansion that followed.
Since 2003, she’s been co­director of the National Bureau of Economic Research Monetary 
Economics program. She’s also a member of the bureau’s Business Cycle Dating Committee,
the body charged with officially determining whether a recession has started and ended,
experience which will serve her well as she advises me on our current economic challenges. 
Christina has done groundbreaking research on many of the topics our Administration will
confront, from tax policy to fighting recessions. And her clear­eyed, independent analyses 
have received praise from both conservative and liberal thinkers alike. I look forward to her 
wise counsel in the White House. 
Finally, we know that rebuilding our economy will require action on a great variety of fronts: 
from education and health care to energy and Social Security. Without sound policies in these 
areas, we can neither enjoy sustained economic growth nor realize our full potential as a 
people. So I am extraordinarily pleased that Melody Barnes, one of the most respected policy 
experts in America, will serve as my director of the Domestic Policy Council, and that she will
be working hand in hand with my economic policy team to chart a course to economic 
recovery. An integral part of that course will be health care reform, and she will work closely 
with my secretary of health and human services on that issue.
As executive vice president for policy at the Center for American Progress, Melody directed a 
network of policy experts dedicated to finding solutions for struggling middle­class families. 
She also served as chief counsel to the great Senator Ted Kennedy on the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, working on issues ranging from crime to immigration to bankruptcy, and fighting 
tirelessly to protect civil rights, women’s rights, and religious freedom. Melody’s brilliant legal
mind and her long experience working to secure the liberties on which this nation was 
founded, as well as to secure the opportunities for those who’ve been left behind, make her a 
perfect fit for DPC director. 
I'm grateful that Tim, Larry, Christina, and Melody have accepted my nomination, and I am 
looking forward to working closely with them in the months ahead. That work starts today, 
because the truth is, we do not have a minute to waste. Right now, our economy is trapped in
a vicious cycle: The turmoil on Wall Street means a new round of belt­tightening for families 
and businesses on Main Street, and as folks produce less and consume less, that just deepens 
the problems in our financial markets. These extraordinary stresses on our financial system 
require extraordinary policy responses. And my Administration will honor the public 
commitments made by the current Administration to address this crisis. 
Further, beyond any immediate actions we may take, we need a recovery plan for both Wall
Street and Main Street, a plan that stabilizes our financial system and gets credit flowing
again, while at the same time addressing our growing foreclosure crisis, helping our struggling 
auto industry, and creating and saving 2.5 million jobs, jobs rebuilding our infrastructure, our 
roads, our bridges, modernizing our schools, and creating the clean energy infrastructure of 
the 21st century. Because at this moment, we need to restore both confidence in the markets 
and restore confidence of middle­class families, who find themselves working harder, earning 
less, and falling further and further behind.
I’ve asked my economic team to develop recommendations for this plan and to consult with
Congress, the current Administration, and the Federal Reserve on immediate economic 
developments over the next two months. I’ve requested that they brief me on these matters 
on a daily basis. And in the coming weeks, I will provide the American people and the 
incoming Congress with an overview of their initial recommendations. It is my hope that the 
new Congress will begin work on an aggressive economic recovery plan when they convene in
early January so that our Administration can hit the ground running.
With our economy in distress, we cannot hesitate and we cannot delay. Our families can’t
afford to keep on waiting and hoping for a solution. They can’t afford to watch another month
of unpaid bills pile up, another semester of tuition slip out of reach, another month where, 
instead of saving for retirement, they’re dipping into their savings just to get by. And I want
to repeat: This will not be easy. There are no shortcuts or quick fixes to this crisis, which has 
been many years in the making, and the economy is likely to get worse before it gets better. 
Full recovery will not happen immediately. And to make the investments we need, we’ll have 
to scour our federal budget, line by line, and make meaningful cuts and sacrifices, as well,  something I’ll be discussing further tomorrow. 
Despite all of this, I am hopeful about the future. I have full confidence in the wisdom and 
ingenuity of my economic team and in the hard work, courage, and sacrifice of the American
people. And most of all, I believe deeply in the resilience and the spirit of this nation. I know
we can work our way out of this crisis because we’ve done it before. And I know we will
succeed once again if we put aside partisanship and politics and work together. 
That’s exactly what I intend to do as President of the United States. Please be seated. Good morning, everybody.
Yesterday we talked about the need to jump-start our economy. I speak to you today, mindful that we meet at a moment of great challenge for America, as our credit markets are stressed, and our families are struggling. But as difficult as these times are, I’m confident that we're going to rise to meet this challenge -- if we’re willing to band together and recognize that Wall Street cannot thrive so long as Main Street is struggling; if we’re willing to summon a new spirit of ingenuity and determination; and if Americans of great intellect, broad experience, and good character are willing to serve in our government at its hour of need.
Yesterday, I announced four such Americans to help lead the economic team that will advise me as we seek to climb out of this crisis. Today, I'm pleased to announce two other key members of our team: Peter Orszag as Director, and Robert Nabors as Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Before I explain why I selected these outstanding public servants, let me say a few words about the work that I'm asking them to undertake. As I said yesterday, the economic crisis we face demands that we invest immediately in a series of measures that will help save or create two and a half million jobs and put tax cuts in the pockets of the hard-pressed middle class. Many of those new jobs will come in areas such as energy independence, technology, and health care modernization that will strengthen our economy over the long term.
But if we are going to make the investments we need, we also have to be willing to shed the spending that we don’t need. In these challenging times, when we're facing both rising deficits and a shrinking economy, budget reform is not an option; it's a necessity. We can't sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived their usefulness, or exist solely because of the power of politicians, lobbyists, or interest groups. We simply can't afford it.
This isn’t about big government or small government. It’s about building a smarter government that focuses on what works. That's why I will ask my new team to think anew and act anew to meet our new challenges. We are going to go through our federal budget, as I promised during the campaign -- page by page, line by line -- eliminating those programs we don’t need, and insisting that those that we do need operate in a sensible, cost-effective way.
Let me just give you one example of what I’m talking about. There’s a report today from -- that from 2003 to 2006, millionaire farmers received 49 million dollars in crop subsidies even though they were earning more than the 2.5 million cutoff for such subsidies. Now, if this is true -- and this was just a report this morning -- but if it's true, it is a prime example of the kind of waste that I intend to end as President.
We're also going to focus on one of the biggest, long-run challenges that our budget faces -- namely, the rising cost of health care in both the public and private sectors. This is not just a challenge but also an opportunity to improve the health care that Americans rely on and to bring down the costs that taxpayers, businesses, and families have to pay.
Now, that's what the Office of Management and Budget will do in my Administration. It will not only help design a budget and manage its implementation, but it's also going to make sure that our government -- your government -- is more efficient and more effective at serving the American people.
And there is no better person to help lead this effort as Director of the OMB than my friend Peter Orszag. Peter's been one of our nation’s leading voices on budgetary issues. It's said that a nation’s budget reflects its values and its priorities. I believe that's true. And I know that Peter will bring to his work at the OMB a set of priorities that I -- and the American people -- share.
Throughout his career, he's made significant contributions in our understanding of all the major economic challenges that we're now confronting -- from reducing medical costs to saving Social Security to fighting global climate change to helping put the dream of a college degree within the reach for more students. As Director of the Congressional Budget Office, he reenergized and reinvigorated the agency, while shifting its focus to confront the health care crisis that is not only a cause of so much suffering for so many families, but a rapidly growing portion of our budget and a drag on our entire economy.
But it's not simply that Peter’s past career makes him qualified for this new appointment; it's also that he has a vision for the future that I share. He believes, as I do, that even as we take steps to restore discipline to our budget, we also have to take -- take the steps right now that are necessary to solve our immediate crisis. Peter doesn’t need a map to tell him where the bodies are buried in the federal budget. He knows what works and what doesn’t, what's worthy of our precious tax dollars and what is not. Just because a program, a special interest tax break, or corporate subsidy is hidden in this year’s budget, does not mean that it will survive the next. The old ways of Washington simply can’t meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.
And no one's more able or more qualified to assist Peter in this work than Deputy Director of the OMB that I am nominating, Robert Nabors. Rob will bring to this post experience in the Executive Branch, at the OMB, where he helped the Clinton Administration achieve balanced budgets, as well as in the Legislative Branch, where he led the Appropriations Committee staff as a driving force for a responsible budget. Together, Peter and Rob will help steer our budget through Congress so that I can sign it into law.
Now, let me be clear: These appointments, as well as the appointments that I announced yesterday, are not the sum of my economic team. These appointments are going to work closely with those that I have not ye[t] announced -- those including the secretaries of Energy and Labor, Commerce, and Health and Human Services, as well as others in my Administration -- to design a recovery path for both Wall Street and Main Street, and to put our economy on a path to long-term growth and prosperity.
Because at this moment, we must not only restore confidence in our markets. We also must restore the confidence of middle class families that their government is on their side, that it’s working for them and on their behalf to meet their families’ needs.
That's what I intend to do as President of the United States. Good morning, everybody. I hope you all had a wonderful Thanksgiving.
Last week, we announced our economic team, which is working as we speak to craft an
Economic Recovery Program to create jobs and grow our struggling economy. Today, Vice
President-elect Biden and I are pleased to announce our national security team.
The national security challenges we face are just as grave -- and just as urgent -- as our
economic crisis. We are fighting two wars. Our old conflicts remain unresolved, and newly
assertive powers have put strains on the international system. The spread of nuclear weapons
raises the peril that the world’s deadliest technologies could fall into dangerous hands. Our
dependence on foreign oil empowers authoritarian governments and endangers our planet.
America must also be strong at home to be strong abroad. We need to provide education and
opportunity to all our citizens, so every American can compete with anyone, anywhere. And
our economic power must sustain our military strength, our diplomatic leverage, and our
global leadership.
The common thread linking these challenges is the fundamental reality that in the 21st
century, our destiny is shared with the world's. From our markets to our security, from our
public health to our climate, we must act with the understanding that, now more than ever,
we have a stake in what happens across the globe. And as we learned so painfully on 9/11,
terror cannot be contained by borders, nor safety provided by oceans alone.
Last week, we were reminded of this threat once again when terrorists took the lives of six
American among nearly 200 victims in Mumbai. In the world we seek, there is no place for
those who kill innocent civilians to advance hateful extremism. This weekend, I told Prime
Minister Singh of India that Americans stand with the people of India in this dark time. And I
am confident that India's great democracy is more resilient than killers who would tear it
down.
And so, in this uncertain world, the time has come for a new beginning -- a new dawn of
American leadership to overcome the challenges of the 21st century, and to seize the
opportunities embedded in those challenges. We will strengthen our capacity to defeat our
enemies and support our friends. We will renew old alliances and forge new and enduring
partnerships. We will show the world once more that America is relentless in the defense of
our people, steady in advancing our interests, and committed to the ideals that shine as a
beacon to the world: democracy and justice; opportunity and unyielding hope -- because
American values are America’s greatest export to the world.
To succeed, we must pursue a new strategy that skillfully uses, balances, and integrates all
elements of American power: our military and diplomacy; our intelligence and law
enforcement; our economy and the power of our moral example. The team that we've
assembled here today is uniquely suited to do just that.
In their past service and plans for the future, these men and women represent all of those
elements of American power, and the very best of the American example. They've served in
uniform and as diplomats; they have worked as legislators, law enforcement officials, and
executives. They share my pragmatism about the use of power, and my sense of purpose
about America's role as a leader in the world.
I have known Hillary Clinton as a friend, a colleague, a source of counsel, and as a campaign
opponent. She possesses an extraordinary intelligence and a remarkable work ethic. I am
proud that she will be our next Secretary of State. She is an American of tremendous stature
who will have my complete confidence, who knows many of the world's leaders, who will
command respect in every capitol, and who will clearly have the ability to advance our
interests around the world.
Hillary’s appointment is a sign to friend and foe of the seriousness of my commitment to
renew American diplomacy and restore our alliances. There is much to do -- from preventing
the spread of nuclear weapons to Iran and North Korea, to seeking a lasting peace between
Israel and the Palestinians, to strengthening international institutions. I have no doubt that
Hillary Clinton is the right person to lead our State Department, and to work with me in
tackling this ambitious foreign policy agenda.
At a time when we face unprecedented transition amidst two wars, I've have asked Robert
Gates to continue as Secretary of Defense, and I'm pleased that he's accepted. Two years
ago, he took over the Pentagon at a difficult time. He restored accountability. He won the
confidence of military commanders and the trust of our brave men and women in uniform, as
well as their families. He earned the respect of members of Congress on both sides of the aisle
for his pragmatism and competence. He knows that we need a sustainable national security
strategy -- and that includes a bipartisan consensus at home.
As I said throughout the campaign, I will be giving Secretary Gates and our military a new
mission as soon as I take office: responsibly ending the war in Iraq through a successful
transition to Iraqi control. We will also ensure that we have the strategy and resources to
succeed against al Qaeda and the Taliban. As Bob said not too long ago, Afghanistan is where
the war on terror began, and it is where it must end. And going forward, we will continue to
make the investments necessary to strengthen our military and increase our ground forces to
defeat the threats of the 21st century.
Eric Holder has the talent and commitment to succeed as Attorney General from his first day
on the job, which is even more important in a transition that demands vigilance. He has
distinguished himself as a prosecutor, a judge, and a senior official, and he is deeply familiar
with the law enforcement challenges we face -- from terrorism to counter-intelligence, from
white collar crime to public corruption. Eric also has the combination of toughness and
independence that we need at the Justice Department. Let me be clear: The Attorney General
serves the American people. And I have every expectation that Eric will protect our people,
uphold the public trust, and adhere to our Constitution.
Janet Napolitano offers the experience and executive skills we need in the next Secretary of
Homeland Security. She has spent her career protecting people -- as a US Attorney, an
Attorney General, and as the Governor of Arizona. She understands the need for a
Department of Homeland Security that has the capacity to help prevent terrorist attacks and
respond to catastrophe -- be it manmade or natural. Janet assumes this critical role having
learned the lessons -- some of them painful -- of the last several years, from 9/11 to Katrina.
She insists on competence and accountability. She knows firsthand the need to have a partner
in Washington that works well with state and local governments. She understands as well as
anyone the danger of an unsecure border. And she will be a leader who can reform a
sprawling Department while safeguarding our homeland.
Susan Rice will take on the crucial task of serving as Permanent Representative of the United
States to the United Nations. Susan has been a close and trusted advisor. As in previous
Administrations, the UN Ambassador will serve as a member of my cabinet and an integral
member of my team. Her background as a scholar, on the National Security Council, and
Assistant Secretary of State will serve our nation well at the United Nations. Susan knows that
the global challenges we face demand global institutions that work. She shares my belief that
the UN is an indispensable and imperfect forum. She will carry the message that our
commitment to multilateral action must be coupled with a commitment to reform. We need
the United Nations to be more effective as a venue for collective action -- against terror and
proliferation, climate change and genocide, poverty and disease.
Finally, I am convinced that General James Jones is uniquely suited to be a strong and skilled
National Security Advisor. Generations of Joneses have served heroically on the battlefield --
from the beaches of Tarawa in World War II, to Foxtrot Ridge in Vietnam. Jim's Silver Star is a
proud part of that legacy. He will bring to the job the dual experience of serving in uniform
and as a diplomat. He has commanded a platoon in battle, served as Supreme Allied
Commander in a time of war, and worked on behalf of peace in the Middle East. Jim is focused
on the threats of today and the future. He understands the connection between energy and
national security, and has worked on the frontlines of global instability – from Kosovo to
northern Iraq to Afghanistan. He will advise me and work effectively to integrate our efforts
across the government, so that we are effectively using all elements of American power to
defeat unconventional threats and promote our values.
I am confident that this team is what we need to make a new beginning for American national
security. This morning, we met to discuss the situation in Mumbai and some of the challenges
that we face in the months and years ahead. In the coming weeks, I will be in close contact
with these advisors, who will be working with their counterparts in the Bush Administration to
make sure that we are ready to hit the ground running on January 20th. Given the range of
threats that we face and the vulnerability that can be a part of every presidential transition, I
hope that we can proceed swiftly for those national security officials who demand
confirmation.
We move forward with the humility that comes with knowing that there are brave men and
women protecting us on our front lines: diplomats and intelligence officers in dangerous
corners of the world, troops serving their second, third, or fourth tours; FBI agents in the
field, cops on the beat, prosecutors in our courts, and cargo inspectors at our ports. These
selfless Americans whose names are unknown to most of us will form the backbone of our
effort. If we serve as well as they are serving, we will protect our country and promote our
values.
And as we move forward with respect for America's tradition of a bipartisan national security
policy and a commitment to national unity, we have to recall that when it comes to keeping
our nation and our people safe, we are not Republicans or Democrats: We are Americans. 
There's no monopoly of power or wisdom in either party. Together, as one nation, as one
people, we can shape our times instead of being shaped by them. Together, we will meet the
challenges of the 21st century not with fear, but with hope.