Hello, everybody! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, everybody go ahead and have a seat. How is everybody doing today? Thank you.  Thank you so much.We've got some special guests here -- now, if everybody has chairs, go ahead and use them. Feel free.  We've got some special guests here today that I just want to acknowledge.  All of you are special, but these folks I want to make sure that you have a chance to see them.

Look at all of you. Look at all of you. Goodness. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Giving all praise and honor to God for bringing us here today. Thank you so much. I am -- I am so grateful to see all of you. You guys are still cheering back there? Hello!  Hello, everybody!  Thank you so much.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Let me just begin by making a few acknowledgements. Hello, everybody!  All right, everybody have a seat.  I got a lot to say here.  It is great to be here.  It is good -- It is good to be here.  I am honored to be part of this special occasion. How’s everybody doing today?

 Thank you, everybody.  It’s good to be back with some real Patriots.

 I love you! I don’t know if some of you remember, but I visited this university about three years ago for the first time.  This was at just the dawn of my presidential campaign.  It was about three weeks old, I think.  We didn’t have a lot of money.  We didn’t have a lot of staff.  Nobody could pronounce my name. Our poll numbers were quite low.  And a lot of people -- a lot of people in Washington, they didn’t think it was even worth us trying. Thank you for the honor of being able to be a part of it.

There are so many people who are proud of you -- your parents, family, faculty, friends -- all who share in this achievement.  So please give them a big round of applause.  To all the moms who are here today, you could not ask for a better Mother’s Day gift than to see all of these folks graduate. Hello Legionnaires! It is wonderful to see all of you. Let me, first of all, thank Commander Foster for your introduction and for your lifetime of service to your fellow Marines, soldiers and veterans. On behalf of us all, I want to thank Jimmie and I want to thank your entire leadership team for welcoming me here today. Thank you very much. Hello, hello, hello! Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you. Hello, Pittsburgh! It is good to be back. Thank you, Senator Casey, and Mayor Ravenstahl, County Executive Dan Onorato, State Auditor Jack Wagner, and all of you for having me back here at Carnegie Mellon. It is good to be here. 
Hello, everybody!  I’m sorry, Bagram, I can’t hear you. Air Assault!  It is great to be back.  Let me first of all thank the 101st Airborne Division Band.  Where’s the band?  Give them a big round of applause.  Thank you. Hello, everybody!  Hey!  Thank you!  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  Well, it is good to be back in Tennessee.  I hope you guys aren’t getting tired of me.  I’ve been coming around a lot lately, because there’s a lot of good stuff happening here. 
Hello, Galesburg!  Well, it’s good to be home in Illinois!  It is good to be back. It’s good to be back.  Thank you.  Thank you so much, everybody.  Thank you.  Everybody, have a seat, have a seat.  Well, it is good to be back. Hello, Berlin!  Thank you, Chancellor Merkel, for your leadership, your friendship, and the example of your life -- from a child of the East to the leader of a free and united Germany. Thank you.  Thank you so much.  Thank you very much.  Please be seated. 
 
Well, hello, Belfast!  Hello, Northern Ireland!  You now know why it’s so difficult to speak after Michelle -- she’s better than me. But on behalf of both of us, thank you so much for this extraordinarily warm welcome. Hello, Midshipmen!  Well, thank you, Governor O’Malley, for your kind introduction and the great support that Maryland gives this Academy.  To Secretary Mabus, Admiral Greenert, General Paxton -- thank you all for your incredible leadership of our extraordinary Navy and Marine Corps teams. Hello, Connecticut.  Thank you. Well, thank you so much, everybody. Let me begin by thanking Nicole, and Ian, for your brave words.  I want to thank them and all the Newtown families who have come here today, including your First Selectman, Pat Llodra.  Nobody could be more eloquent than Nicole and the other families on this issue. And we are so grateful for their courage and willingness to share their stories again and again, understanding that nothing is going to be more important in making sure the Congress moves forward this week than hearing from them. Hey, Chicago!  Hello, Chicago! Hello, everybody. Hello, Hyde Park! It is good to be home! It is good to be home! Everybody have a seat. You all relax. It’s just me. You all know me. It is good to be back home. Hello, everybody.  I just received a full briefing from our emergency response teams, including FEMA, and agencies that are going to be helpful in the response and recovery efforts -- the Department of Energy, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Department of Health and Human Services. Hello, everybody! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, everybody go ahead and have a seat. How is everybody doing today? How about Tim Spicer? I am here with students at Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia. And we've got students tuning in from all across America, from kindergarten through 12th grade. And I am just so glad that all could join us today. And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding host. Give yourselves a big round of applause. 

I want to thank all the speakers and performers today for reminding us, through song and through words, just what it is that we love about America. I want to thank all of you for braving the cold and the crowds and traveling in some cases thousands of miles to join us here today. Welcome to Washington, and welcome to this celebration of American renewal.
